four three two one
and we're live mr. Roth as live as live
will ever possibly get on the intergrade
international good to see man you really
do look great you look healthy you look
vibrant you look surprised no don't look
so surprised yeah I haven't been to
sleep since the late 80s I didn't miss a
thing but I'm a little groggy but I'm
good to go in my job you expect us to
dissipation and illness right you know
kind of get along with you you expect a
disintegration right in my kind of job
and let me from Motorhead style mm do
you know the term wabi-sabi do you know
what that is no wabi-sabi is a Japanese
term that succinctly put means that
which is perfect because it's a little
fucked up right your favorite genes very
well yeah that's like a patina on an old
car hmm the guitar player in the Rolling
Stones very Oh of us up yeah yes he's
very well Vasavi in New York City for
example the old that starts to fall
apart right next to the new that's part
of the beauty there your favorite
leather jacket yeah is that can you
expect that to increase but I don't know
I'm not really an athlete I don't really
train I'm kind of a singer who always
traded as celebrity too you know hey
show me how you do that and how many
times should I lift this and what
happens if I fall off of this going this
fast but you used to train right used to
didn't you train with Benny or Kita's oh
yeah I went through martial arts the
first time let me go back okay I lived
in student housing up until I was just
about a teenager okay and it was a time
when you bought one paint brush at a
time okay and most of my values come
from that public library I learned to
swim in a public swimming pool in my dad
finished medical school okay I happened
I wasn't planned in the 50s that
happened a lot
and so we had a lot a lot of patients
who were kind of on the periphery of
Pasadena California which is where we
came okay I was born in Indiana lived in
Massachusetts he was a resident grow up
around the hospital's dinner meant going
to the hospital meet that you know and
when we came out to LA the Japanese were
kind of peripheral spanish-speaking
people curiously enough you know the
running story was that there were six
spanish-speaking people at UCLA and
three of them were in gardening no
really that way back in the 60s that was
a case today easily you know massive
amounts of percentage is a yo hablo
sufficient days but he'll come he okay
it's not the second language it's kind
of the first in half now right things
have really changed a mental yeah and I
grew up in those neighborhoods okay so I
can gang sign the whole alphabet
can you really yeah I have two lowriders
I've got I really like at a 51 mercury
that's a shot dropped low and slow do
you drive it oh yeah I got a 66 v-dub
bug with a Chevy engine a 383 up in the
front what a lady and I couldn't hold my
gosh got a roll your R's you see old
Riley what do you drive those things
no we drive them all around you know
it's it's Southern California of course
is generating a lot of you are listening
in with five layers and going hey fuck
I'm not driving anywhere for the next
three days according to the weather map
you know but here for example it's
t-shirt weather so you know the great
outdoors means
how's that sound over the headphones
good sounds like like an engine yeah
yeah but I always tricked the first time
I ever we were just playing with a sword
there and that's not a samurai sword
that's like calling a 9-millimeter a
police gun yeah it kind of is cuz they
use but that's a katana right and we
were playing with that a little bit
first time somebody handed me those we
were at the Buddhist temple in Pasadena
19 you bet I remember
sixty-five and there was a demonstration
of the Japanese culture thank you
and fella came out and demonstrated I
thought one you know there's sword arts
and stuff and then he said I'm gonna
take somebody from the audience and my
dad pushed me and I walked out in the
middle of that floor and held it you
know here hold that sword just like you
said wow that's what is that a
hundred-year-old sword
it's from the 1500 years wham-o what am
i cheers something like this first time
I held that sort it's like out of a
graphic novel lightning you know zoom ah
it's Japanese for lightning careful what
you show your kids Joe well you went and
lived in like last time I talked to you
you were living in Japan nice you were
doing kendo over there yes well you
pitch up all someday I'm gonna play for
the Yankees Joe I loves the wrestling
for Apple and someday I'm gonna get in
the middle of ringing Joe Rochas gonna
say my name and I'm working my way up
through ed Parker's American Kenpo
system and someday I'm going to Japan
but I'm gonna learn from the guys who
invented this stuff now I'm putting on a
pork barrel access to make it
entertaining but it did and I started
exactly like I did in Barham Boulevard
making rock and roll with the my TV
mighty van Halen in the late 70s at the
Oakwood Garden Apartments in Midtown
Tokyo I did not know a single person I
didn't know a syllable of Japanese I had
no idea where I was and no I can't drive
on the left side of the street I barely
carry a cell phone Karen come on and I
suspect that a lifetime of adventure you
do all the traveling come on artists to
artists you're at home everywhere now
aren't you yeah a lot of ways yeah who
are the comfortable one in the room
especially if there's conflict which
there always is and that's what's the
most unsettling to the to the tourist
travelers hmm you're at home when you
first start learning Japanese comes in
three stages first you watch kids shows
on television
because they pronounce everything and
nobody interrupts then you watch the
news everybody speaks with a perfect
accent bigger words nobody interrupts
and then you start going with me to the
movies in the middle of the day on
Tuesday in Tokyo at Ginza and you're the
only pale face in the room it's all in
Japanese and it's the movies everybody's
interrupting everybody shooting
screaming sirens airplanes going by and
if you can begin to decipher even one
character then you'll develop yours
maybe why do you know how to write it
well you practice that certainly and
think of it as cross-training all right
there are a lot of schools for example
Hebrew school you always hear about
Hebrew school before you go to bar
mitzvah class
it's an ancient way of wait a minute got
to develop the side of your brain by
correlating designs with language with
meaning that may not actually be in
English nobody's walking around speaking
Hebrew after all the only four summers
of why but you developed that side of
your brain to where you start to have a
capacity to learn in an accelerated way
so all your best musicians speak a
couple languages we're best politicians
speak a couple ball you're best artists
architects all your best design folks
and stuff speak a couple of language
it's no secret that you develop that
side of your brain if your kids don't
speak Spanish get after it I have to
learn a language
it's never too late you'll see the
difference you don't I did every single
day everybody called it Roth University
in Tokyo every morning two hours
Japanese class you know speaking the
language I can get things done for you
but I'm not conversant right you're
follow the end result is that it's
cross-training
mmm all right long-term memory my
short-term memory is a little too short
get shorter but you'll see the
difference in your ability to remember
what you read to start remembering
everything you see sometimes that's
dangerous because of the fact that
you're learning this new thing so you're
activating
as part of your brain oh yeah they'll
start it off with little kids in art
class for example where you take a
pencil and you got is just a pencil what
else could it be
well in this environment is a stick
shift no it's not it's a Kubo ton
he's got Joe's wrist no the little girls
go it's a bo dad me I'm a hero I'll save
the day and you can start to think in
those terms using actual language
movements same thing at this point in
your career with jujitsu and grappling
you have a vocabulary that starts to
expand expand by having to learn and
challenge and challenge people marvel at
Anthony Bourdain gun lesson one his
biggest talent was to be at home
everywhere yeah no matter what somebody
might say or a posture or present he was
able to let it go by win later or no
will Duke it out right here hmm
and he had the capacity to stay cool in
the middle of all of it so maybe it's
stay cool school what do you think well
he just had a fascinating mind for
travel and food and culture and he just
wanted to know everything about how
these people thought about the world and
saw things differently and if you think
I kind of feel bad now for people that
don't travel I really do I just feel
like that you're missing so much of what
a human being is mm travel is a little
bit perhaps like music or looking at art
on the wall you kind of have to have
somebody teach you how to do it a little
bit yeah yeah it's like the fight game
yeah yo you know you somebody could sit
with you and get really bored with
technical boxing it might be the best
you've ever seen and it's not a slugfest
or prong you have to explain well see
some jazz bitches brew yeah kinda
McGregor's bitches brew arguably one of
the several it's all over the place and
illicit and some is very contained like
the disc jockeys voice yeah there's a
very mekin
the Jazz thing is a really good analogy
because you're either in a jazz are you
not in a jazz and I I've never liked
elec of his background music but I have
a good friend my friend Alonzo Bodden is
a jazz aficionado and he like hosts jazz
tours and stuff and he's a stand-up
comic so he'll do like comedy on these
things and he just loves it I mean he
like lives for it well I see the look on
your face just because nobody taught you
how to taste beer mmm if beer works in
three parts and like it says in the
Pickwick Papers you don't taste it with
a sip
we tasted it you gotta go you got a
quaff you got into something and when
you describe well there's the finish to
the taste of a Cuban cigar
you mean when it's finished in the at
know the finish okay somebody explain
these things all right what's the
difference between scotch whiskey and
Tennessee bourbon well there's an e in
the word right whiskey there's an e and
there is no easy in the word in whiskey
for scotch okay that simple sort of
starts it
jazz music somebody explains it to you
in very simple digestible Matt lofty
necktie terms okay I begin to understand
a little bit of what's going on how do
you get how do you explain okay how
would you explain jazz I'm gonna I'll
really tighten up for you excuse me well
at least I got my health go for me huh
um we'll do it in the Beatles style
here's the best way to go for somebody
new and interested the McCartney note in
the Lennon note okay
the McCartney note is always kind of
happy I've actually bumped into Sir Paul
over at Henson studios and he's really
happy okay in his note
here how pretty that sounds sounds ready
I'll do it again
Lennon he's the salt in the caramel baby
he's got a there's a darkness there's an
edge there's a shadow listen to the last
three notes
my mom and there's a little darkness and
both of those last three notes is where
you get that little a little bit of
pepper in the chocolate and it's a
little whistle it's a little melancholy
a neat life like that and when you put
them together it doesn't sound like they
do but if I could I'd sing both parts
and it goes together you go Wow
bittersweet mmm like my fucking career
my last three really and there we go
so you kind of have to listen to jazz
like you would taste one okay the best
for this felonious monk you know yeah
same thing the right hand is Paul left
hands John and he's working this thing
you can't tell is it happy ever sad
right I don't know how was dinner last
night same it is indicative if that's
what's around it cuz snatches happy
that's Disney it's not just sad you know
think of something somebody who's always
tuning his guitar too sad there are some
folks yeah Leonard Cohen mmm since past
is what Bo's that sounded more like
Bowie I know what you mean
getting tattoos yeah two sleeves both my
arms same here I know I rarely show yeah
okay maybe that's a baby-boomer thing
from the elbow up yeah this is all
Japanese style right traditional tap
style did yeah yeah well my colors were
tapped in and in front is Horry Oh Shi I
have the tuxedo to have you do yeah the
whole cheeks and everything yeah the
whole thing Wow interpreter had to sit
on me and hold me down I'm not gonna kid
you you know it was a trial
you know what imagine is it much more
painful to do with that top that way no
it's uh overall I think what happens is
tattoo when you get something that
stings you can take it for a while it's
the distance mm that counts you can
the cold for 30 seconds you can make a
miserable cold are you doing the cryo
dunk yeah I do that stay boom you know
take anything for 30 seconds right
you're a showbiz man try holding that
out in front of you for 15 seconds kind
of a night your suit yeah Wow look at
that so there's some photos of it up
yeah because you never really do show
your tattoos anywhere now it's not part
of the show it's not part of but behind
the scenes my mom who was an art teacher
was the the the healing happy side of my
family came from my dad I learned a box
from mom really oh yeah bad Dave like my
sisters call it comes from civil rod
okay if you way if you get you competed
for the magnet for the refrigerator okay
and mom would be doing something you
come up with your new drawing and she'd
say should I go get the magnet and not
look at it Wow you wouldn't look and go
you're right stay here harsh
yeah and then before you would look at
it go just clean up your paint box you
see your brushes okay family yes ends
when I got my tuxedo first thing mom
said was I really like the colors what
do you do when you're outdoors playing
ball okay and that's you know part of
what compels what we're doing here I
invented ink the original okay and this
is a whole series of things that didn't
exist before
so products to protect your your tattoo
oh yeah you know I I just whenever I go
anywhere outside I spray down with
sunscreen and people like why are you
doing that that's like because I don't
want my tattoos to fade away
I have artwork on my body you have a
Rembrandt on your body it's probably
more expensive than the paint job on
your car driving a ranger cereal for
short
yeah I'm serious yeah and you won't
think twice about it
right okay cuz it's forever all right
it's forever I'm 64
doctor says 64 is the new 90 for me I
believe it take my word for him a little
farther down range than a ladder yeah I
can tell you what I see from here you
look great
if you wait until you're 55 to start
hitting the weight stack you will look
like a 55 year old who trains three
times a week right if you start when
you're two digits old you'll fool mmm yo
fool yeah and that's kind of the fun you
just got to keep moving
oh yeah you start way early when did you
stop the tattoos I got my first one in
1977 all right
came back from a delirious trip to the
West Indies and a handful of folks that
were camping out on the beach I'm a
combat hippy okay peace love and heavy
weapons yeah case you know they don't
wanna feel the love and camping
communist style somewhere in the it was
in Martinique to the West Indies and we
all came back got a seahorse hmm on the
on the ankle oh boy how feminine yeah
and then from there I waited you know
most uh today what's popular for example
Hispanic style you you use the badges
blossom you document something here's a
name here's something we got when we
went on spring break here's something
when we got married and you build like a
mural and I waited to do the whole thing
in one sweep you know thinking in terms
of plans so I waited until you know I
was well past that I was celebrating my
60th birthday but I got about 300 hours
in on it and I'm still outdoors I'm
still bouncing around and there's
nothing out there I've been climbing I
started off at Joshua Tree and climbing
out at tok it's in the 70s didn't know
how
it wasn't Alex Honnold just on the show
yeah okay well same circuit from camp
four to Studio 54
I was on I was in both I was flavor of
the week the first time when studio 54
was that happening yest okay at the same
time I had just bought a Winnebago that
looked like something from Breaking Bad
the same way Tobago as I saw it is that
I used to own that that was for nothing
but going to Yosemite really you know
how Al and the documentary is this is
living in his van mm-hmm part of me
always looks back at that it's Wow
sleeping in the back of Bobby hatches
pickup truck parked out in the middle of
nowhere in Joshua Tree 1973 and you
would be climbing even back then oh yeah
what kind of equipment did you guys use
back then to use today no nothing like
it we used webbing for our harnessing
and you used 11 millimeter kernmantle or
Manila rope all right
and I remember the first times in 1972
you'll see his name John Ball as
pioneering a lot of the routes in Joshua
Tree first time we watched him as
seniors in high school go flagging you
know are you pressure what can you see
this on the screen there where you pull
with your hands and push with your feet
you know flagging all the way up the
corner of a handball court at Muir high
school in Pasadena all the way up to the
top and then stood on the top and looked
down showing incredible Wow well nine
incredible talents we'd never seen such
a thing and from that point you know we
just floored it because living in up in
Yosemite in the various parts was
something new traveling to Joshua Tree
TOC it's down to the beaches and such
that was a constant for me I've always
tried to follow something as opposed to
thinking of his training even then even
the word training tastes like homework
right so I've always tried to I I was
running for a while
period of times about seven years when I
jogged and ran and I decided on the road
I'll run across every bridge in America
that we tore through so I probably 1520
different bridges Golden Gate Brooklyn's
and that's where I ran now I did smoke a
joint and run the New York City Marathon
and I came in right behind the wheel
chairs in the back well some folks need
the ribbon and they need to see the
clock and everybody clapping and then
there's some folks you know who just
just won okay and they had took down the
clock but the line was still there on
the cement in Central Park hopped over
the line got the picture airborne went
home took a nap and that night I went
out and got drunk on tequila how long
does it take you to finish the marathon
about five and a half hours that's not
bad that's very good it's better than
Bert Kreischer no no come on let's be
complimentary it's the worst it's
definitely yes that's about the absolute
worst did you was the winner do it hour
20 I think they get it in around two
hours there were like two hours in seven
seconds yes I think they're trying to
break two hours isn't that what's going
on yeah someone's trying to break two
hours so but that's what I did
for a period of time you know keep going
kayaking you know so you just always
been involved in physical activities
that were fun in the early nineties
kayaking was illegal in Manhattan okay
because it was dirty water and people
would get trundle deliver under the
ferryboats okay so what we did is we cut
a hole in the fence next to the 14th
Street sanitation department over by the
West Side Highway you all know what I'm
talking about if you're from there and
we did it exactly like movie style like
a great escape where we fitted the fence
back with duct tape and we would drag
our kayaks from Union Square West all
the way down 14th Street ok and you pick
up your provisions for it all right you
got to get your bagels you got to get
you know so that's what you know like
this you gotta get something to drink
get some Gatorade
you know not to drink the Gatorade so
you have something to is in serious and
we get the girlfriends okay to wait up
is in the Meatpacking District right
there it's dead silent it was a ghost
town then it was not hip-hop it was not
going which is what it's doing now right
and you go to shopping with your old
idiots at Stella McCartney down there
now at Benton is a ghost town man it was
great
scary dangerous hmm and one girlfriend
what's that I got to be careful with
names they're all married now how'd you
manage to die mine
Karen would always go north and wait
around because if the cops come they
would step out we would see them or
whatever and we would sneak our boats
through the hole in the fence into the
river right where Sully landed his point
right there all right and then girls
would come and jump into boats and we
would take off more than two or three
times local PD would Shaw going hi whoa
what are you gonna touch that water back
then no that was that was death inky
black horror death like this did you
ever Duncan it accident uh no not in not
in that River particular but we started
a number of the trips today you there's
probably six different kayak clubs that
you can show Manhattan kayak club and
Brooklyn clack many many now the boomers
what senses of humor figured it all out
all right and we would go geez we
started trips we go at midnight under
the Verrazano Bridge in the winter all
right and you wear dry suits something
you know you're long not long johns
inside of a dry suit like this and don't
get me wrong I would be the DJ I have a
a tape player and I would Bungie tape
player like this and everybody would
have this is primitive time since 1990s
and we would have little little
microphones and the earpieces that you
use on motorcycles back then so you have
communications from boats about oh and I
would put mine on the tape player and
I'd be the DJ
oh yeah we'd listen to the ballgame late
at night sometimes you don't need your
laughing all you couldn't see anybody in
the swells and we go under the same
bridge that John Travolta sits and looks
at with the girlfriend it's Saturday
Night Fever same bridge you know that
Woody Allen in Manhattan look sad you
know you have a wonderful with son the
other sighs terrible imitation of either
oh yes and we'd float under there full
moon midnight February snow drifting
like this and since it was illegal to do
it we had a buddy who owned a plumbing
company in Brooklyn and he would bring
his truck and park it right off a Coney
Island your Stillwell Avenue where the
ferris wheel is and he would blink his
lights Allied forces style Winkley like
that and we'd be about a quarter mile
off having come from under the Verrazano
Bridge no why don't we see those lights
blink know where to turn left
dick do you even want to hear this yes
okay and and okay we'd have to make the
left and we'd wait for this swells like
a give us another blink when all was
clear and just beat ass all a
quarter-mile of row row row catch the
wave get out of the boat you know
silently drag it all the way up the
beach okay like you see in every war
movie all right otherwise this about it
but I don't know $200 fine or something
like this and we would put the boats big
two-person kayaks into the back of the
plumbing truck and onto the top of it
drive it back to the coffee shop on
Union Square West it's very well-known
like that and get drunk with pretty
girls and tell him about it prints your
stories and all this was going on while
you were you were air quotes David Lee
Roth I mean this is the 90s you're a
fucking huge you're still a rockstar and
you're going through polluted water in a
fucking kayak hiding from the cops put
the tape player and a some sort of
jury-rigged microphones to some of the
best places that I went rock climbing
we're on walls of hotels in Europe we
toss a toss a rope out the third floor
of a bed-and-breakfast in San Sebastian
that's covered from flagstone with
flagstone from the 1400s like that and
then yo yo you know one guy would stay
up watch TV and work the ballet and you
climb up the outside Jesus Christ
hardcore jollies and you were doing this
all around the same time oh yeah take my
bicycles with me I'm gonna it's outdoors
is in the blood you know it's part of
growing up without any real things my
dad was a student so uh take this stick
for you it'll be a bow for me it'll be a
baton when did you start working as an
EMT that was around the same time wasn't
it mmm EMT was about 12 summers ago for
me so I was turning 50 and I started
going back to school for outdoor med
response camping climbing and what is it
like when you go to one of those classes
and they've realized who you are how
weird is it kid sometimes you can get a
little bit uptight because I'm the
oldest guy in the room okay and I want
to clarify something when I became an
EMT shield number three to seven 466
47th precinct big shout-out to all of
you who taught me and tolerated me until
I became an EMT and put on that uniform
I wasn't somebody somebody cleaned the
fucking truck up until I put on that
uniform Joe after training for how many
months it's almost a year for me like
this
I wasn't someone someone clean up the
truck and that was my job starting right
off but I was also the somebody who
dragged the oxygen box all 13 floors up
in the Eaton walled projects and artist
to artist how many times have you driven
past something whether it's a huge
building or a teepee I wonder what's in
there hmm and then you go oh I wonder
what's in the frigerator
I wonder what they listen to in there
and I wonder who the they are I have a
fascination for that mmm my pop had a
big sprawling I think is it simply
empathy for people you know when the
fellas started getting AIDS in the early
80s he started treating him he's the eye
surgeon and everybody my sisters and
stuff started saying but this is a time
when you think you can catch that shift
from breathing it pop and whatever and
he turned to me I'll never forget he
said I don't get to choose my patients
well I don't get to choose my audience
so what was the motivation to start
doing that though let's go see what's in
the refrigerator Joe and you'll walk in
first cuz you're way stronger than me in
case there's trouble and you'll go
ambulance and in case somebody comes at
us you handle it oh I had a I had a
mentor named Keisha who had to pile her
dreadlocks up so high that it was as
long as from her shoulders to the top of
her head her hair cut it was like she
had to she put her hat up on top and
Keisha walk in that door first homey
domestic disputes she dealt with the
guys you had to be there for domestic
yeah those areas very and you get an eye
on your audience stops being audience
mmm starts being the neighborhood yeah
and pretty soon you live in the
neighborhood I was under the train once
in the Fulton Street Station talking to
a homeless valid quick briefing act like
nothing's wrong so you can get them to
come out hey you hungry
train breathe okay subway train breathes
it doesn't just sit there silently you
gotta go
grilled cheese mmm I'm laughing now but
that's a nervous laugh yeah
well and now every one of those folks is
in my voice when I sing oh I like that I
like that thought process when you
decided to do this was a conscience a
conscious effort to try to just enrich
your experiences cross-training
cross-training I'll give it the coke
rationale and I also know it's gonna
change me don't know how but you got to
get in it and after a certain point in
your life maybe go where there is no
shallow and mmm challenge yourself as
just as I move somewhere that's a
foreign language is you can't even read
the street signs in Japan for example
but you know you start off on the bunny
slopes you don't surf 40-footers right
all right first you gotta move to New
York and go through that whole thing of
what have I done but what's so what's
the thought process when you're like I'm
gonna be an EMT I'm going to study for a
year on a train I'm gonna go out there
and I'm gonna actually do it I okay
sometimes when I go for a walk in the
city my plan is to just follow where the
Sun is beaming I get to an intersection
the Sun is on that far corner
I'll cross over to that and then I'll
look down the block and see where the
Sun is and I'll walk down the block and
get into that part and he's did a lot of
this by yourself oh yeah I did the same
thing with EMT training iced geez my dad
was a doctor the first thing merit badge
I got as a Boy Scout was first aid I was
that guy
and I learned that for skinny guy like
me real power probably came from being
cool when everybody else is going yeah
because my dad had to do that right I
assisted him in surgeries at a very
early age I mean oh yeah and you know
and stuff that made everybody else like
this pocket I have a good ambulance boys
you want to hear it let me know that
you're gonna be just fine do you imagine
though being in an ambulance you look up
and it's motherfucking David Lee Roth
telling you you're gonna be okay be like
oh I'm dead
I must be dead I only twice has that
actually happened because I only worked
in the hood I only worked around it at
night I only worked you know you would
never expect to see me once was after
Ozzfest oh geez lost ad yeah poor kid
was you know drank too much or whatever
and he was out of sorts corner somebody
found him in from the local liquor store
and you could see that this belief in
his face you know when I leaned over ya
and said you're gonna be just fine like
this it is like the lyrics of an Ozzy
song come to life ya know but beyond
that no nobody ever really did and you
know ah Jesus I weighed 15 more pounds I
was doing the Arnold routine at the
weight stack mmm because I was somebody
well somebody help me lift this my
fourth day mmm that pretentious about
you know what my fourth day's work so
you bulked up for the job oh yeah and I
wait 15 more pounds and I lifted man I
could lift I lifted people out of
bathtubs I lifted him out of the ocean I
lifted him out of the projects I lifted
him out of the truck I lifted him into
the other truck as the first truck just
broke down in the snow
and this far oh sorry how long did you
do this for Irie certain once about four
and a half summers four and a half years
okay and I you know in between playing
and whatever and again a big shout-out
to all my teachers in mentor it's not a
day goes by I don't think about it and
not a day goes by that I don't use some
skill including that you know that'll
level your head a little bit yeah
somebody go make some coffee Joel mmm so
you feel like first guy like you who is
such a gigantic superstar and you just
touring these huge arenas and people are
freaking out every time they see you for
you it was maybe a good way to balance
things out too because
you're seeing people in a life-or-death
situation and dire straits when they're
unhealthy and they need help and and
you're out there in the down-and-dirty
and the nitty gritty like you know like
you said trucks breaking down picking
people up out of the bathtubs well a lot
of what you just described is the first
response team yes we always describe our
patients our friends and clients okay
but the struggle for our I'll call it
the uniform starts with military police
fire first response I'll throw in
nursing emergency room in those of us
with bells and whistles you call the
ambulance
it's cetera um you see that from the
inside out
yeah and that really will sharpen your
vision okay for example right off the
bat I pay 52 percent in taxes just tear
my dollar in half have for many many
years
I'm all for tripling police fire medical
paramedic emergency nursing cetera like
that starting pay should be about $2,500
a week and on I'm free with you I would
pay more tax happily I would too if that
case would be and we would take what is
a very set of very refined sciences and
art forms everything I just described I
call it the uniform because we put on a
uniform when we go to work in there like
that on it's time to go digital
and you can start making real demands in
terms of just the preparation you follow
mm-hmm
today being on the beat taking care of
people whether you're in first response
medical or answering fire calls us on
part of these days you have to make the
decisions of a SEAL team er mmm where's
the same training where's the same gear
I went to I was out in Palm Springs at
the international school for tactical
medicine out there in the fellows we had
game wardens from Alaska we had heavy
rescue from Cleveland we had all manner
of folks coming through there and they
all discuss well sometimes we have to
share one helmet what sometimes we don't
have enough guys to do this and that so
we just parked the car and let them
think there's something these kinds of
stories follow and you start paying
people what they're worth and start
paying people according to what your
expectations then a lot of things I
don't go political there's nonsense like
Charlottesville and what's happening in
a lot of areas around these stages will
go by the wayside they move from no
qualifications necessary to a mint you
guys work just as hard and you endanger
yourselves way more than a trial
attorney yes I personally got out of
jury duty recently by saying I didn't
want to get out of jury duty in fact I
raised my hand when the judge says
anybody here think they can do jury duty
you're all trying to get out of it and I
raised my hand and she said Weiss and
because I now can see that there are
neighborhoods where everybody is I know
of neighborhoods where everybody's a
liar a cheat a cripple and if they're
not they're covering for somebody and
she said what neighborhood is that I
said little community in Beverly Hills
[Laughter]
the bailiff almost dropped his head
everybody was laughing they dismissed me
mmm too opinionated mr. Roth you've had
too much life experience
don't let the door hit in the ass on the
way out
yep have you ever done jury duty no I
have not if I uh if I did get in there
I'd probably just tell them I think
everyone's guilty well you have cop
socks and it's when you walk into the
room and you know everybody's lying hmm
no not really I mean I I probably should
do it soon probably good experience for
me do they ask you to do it I'm sure
it's happened I keep showing up the last
time I actually showed up a fella I
think it was a dryers two guys
who are being accused of shooting
somebody walks up his last I don't know
it looks faintly Slavic if you grew up
with James Bond movies everybody will
know who you are you are very popular in
the Podesta coffee where are you playing
next you're gonna Pasadena this yeah
it's a nice house all the time yeah
constantly there do you have a vibe
about the ice house is there a mojo to
it oh yeah please explain oldest comedy
club in the known universe that that
place has been in operation since the
1960s it was originally an actual ice
house we're back before there was
refrigeration they would bring in ice
and people would go to buy ice they'd
have a gigantic you know freezer type
room one was insulated so would keep the
ice for a long time then it became like
a variety type place and then somewhere
in the 60s it became a comedy club and
it is now the oldest longest-running
comedy club in the world
1973 I was working as a janitor slash
tech in surgery at a hospital Pasadena
hmm
this was night shift okay Wow in their
early 70s we did everything it was the
stepping stone to going to medical
school and I was playing an acoustic
guitar okay I still take lessons playing
acoustic guitar okay and on Sunday
night's audition night you would sign up
for audition at the ice house at 6:30
they'd opened the window and you would
sign up so I'd take my dinner break and
drive my opal cadet station wagon up to
the ice house get there at about 6:15
wait they popped the window sign up so
that I would be one of the first three
to audition after the last act on Sunday
night which would happen right around
ten o'clock if you weren't one of the
first three during audition night nobody
was there and
they shut it down and I would sign up
and go back to work and then come you
know drive myself back change out of my
hospital stuff you know put on the right
clothes like jeans or whatever and I
auditioned there probably 15 times Wow
Bob stain who owned and ran the place
was just a voice over the intercom
he was unforgiving bob was a famous non
smiler what's funny is there's a bob
that owns it now Bob Fisher it couldn't
be more different nicest guy on the
planet Earth oh he's smiling hugging
everybody super sweetheart of a guy okay
yeah well Bob stain was a voice over the
intercom he was hard core you know of
you go well here's a little song and the
voice would say hopefully it's littler
than the one preceding it and you worked
your chops accordion he was your he was
your Ike Turner oh boy yeah he was
unforgiving and you learned quick of
about timing in between transitions
segue you were allowed to do three songs
and if he felt your song was too long or
you're you're riffing between his ego he
called you out if you didn't like your
shoes you talked about it you never saw
him you heard it over the PA oh wow he
was in the back is quite a ritual and I
learned a tremendous amount about how
you communicate with a with a crowd how
do you talk to people as one how do you
make eye contact what in fact are the
wrong shoes what are the wrong shoes
platforms okay David Lee Bowie will be
singing as hopefully a shorter song than
the last when he sang last Sunday are
you the same David Lee Bowie you would
hear this that
over the over the PA system when kiss
performs today do they still wear
platforms I think it's in the contract
Jill it's part of the outfit McEnroe has
to yell you gotta be fuckin kidding kiss
I've never thought of that like they
might be the last band that's wearing
platforms until it Wow
everybody likes to make fun of platforms
bell-bottoms sideburns so they come back
around
oh there's where there was something
there Sarge
I don't know about platforms on guys but
on the right girl yeah on the right girl
oh right the roles in platforms do you
know into the right like oh wow that
suggests different time frames that's
the 20s that's the 30s that could be the
7d you know there's something about
those kiss ones though that was like
their inexorable right there a part of
the gig like with gene Simmons he's got
demon boots look at that they're still
rocking them right those are new and
improved costumes yeah those are digital
they're definitely new and improved I
like the boots I like it man that has
got to be fucking hell on your knees
though that's got to be hell on your
lower back
Stanley's still in shape yeah oh he's he
looks great he was here a couple years
ago you know this is where I failed I
should have gone kiss Blue Man Group
years ago do those of you were my age
Lassie
there should be four of me oh that's the
move right because yeah all right no one
could tell right such thing like you
could replace a lot of those guys and if
you didn't tell anybody and a lot
someone have you ever heard the Japanese
gentleman that's he does a Steve Perry
impression he's the new lead singer for
journey
oh he's I think he's from Philippines oh
is he Japanese either way fucking
phenomenal yeah the guy sounds exactly
like Steve Perry all right well this
solicits an interesting subject perhaps
compels it um are some bands like West
Side Story where you can continually
revitalize the production
different actor it with different actors
okay a whole lot of Shakespeare going on
yeah okay
um but you have to kind of replicate the
initial sound or do you because I'm sure
all of Beethoven's early orchestras are
dead dead just because I don't think you
can say this because this is a part of
my youth Van Halen was a part of my
youth I mean we used to juda the van
Halen logo on our notebooks in high
school along with the Rolling Stones
like the mouth and you know all the kiss
logo when it switched over to Sammy
Hagar it became a different thing it was
a different there's a whole different
pivot I mean it wasn't it wasn't a bad
thing no no it was the same thing saying
all of Sam's lyrics contain love yes
okay why can't this be love and I ain't
talking about love be right back with
more fighting after this who do I jog
with I don't run
who's my running partner yeah run with
the Deaf and hello okay I want to keep
going yeah should I jump should I jump
might as well jump thank you it's
questions and love are a great
classically that's Sinatra yeah okay um
but I'm not well-adjusted nobody in my
job ever was much less kept at this long
and I faced it embraced it well Julian
strong yeah yeah chokes oh no it's all
right there in the lyrics yeah even
using what are considered classic music
parlor tricks taking a very sad lyric
and positioning it against a very happy
piece of music the music is rapping it's
it's it's a heavy metal rumba Bluebird
do do do do do doop do do doop and lyric
is she's crying yeah Jamie's crying you
didn't notice that yeah yeah it's it's
it there's a sense there's a sense of
larceny there's chaos to it
lirik there's a sense of its music for
after midnight when we're all guilty Joe
yeah whereas again nothing wrong with
the Sammy Hagar thing but it moved into
a mall crowd it was a different sort of
a vibe it was it was a good vibe for a
lot of folks but it was a different vibe
I mean I don't have anything against
Sammy Hagar I think he's wonderful I
always loved that song can't drive 55
he's got some great shit but I never
listened to the van Halen with van Hagar
I just didn't listen to it to me it was
like it was the end of an era for me
it's two different folks yes I wanted to
be the art project not just where one
yeah so by placing everything we've
discussed if you think of it as
cross-training that's a great rationale
yeah why'd you do that and then you did
this and why it's cross train it's gonna
reinforce aound it's gonna reinforce the
way you're stagecraft how you even walk
out on stage yeah your choice or what to
wear yeah follow in your sense of humor
especially well that's a great way to
look at what you were talking about with
the West Side West Side Story analogy
because it kind of went on but it kind
of didn't it's like if you took West
Side Story and then you changed the
story you can't change the story but you
can change the voices yeah but it would
be a different story like the van Halen
story became a different story all right
here I'll venture this okay one of my
favorite freeze-dried bands in history
is Toto what my freeze-dried well all
freeze-dried coffee looks the same and
it's great I've been camping and man
there's nothing better than just a cup
of fresh freeze-dried get it in the
world in the wrongest places that's fun
some context it's the best thing you
could ever have that Afrikaans a good
song it's an amazing system male that's
Smithsonian level yes song yes okay
Roseanne and soul does amazing any of
the fellas could walk up to me and I
wouldn't recognize him
no you know I said would not recognize
them no I would say is the greatest
genius in all of music in that regard
Steve Miller nobody knows who the fuck
Steve Miller as
Steve hold your liner yeah but mean yet
some every layman knows those songs if
you stay few even start to play du
duta-de to do yeah did it it didn't
everybody was getting ready to sing
that's I'm the love me god damn he had
some jams but then I don't go anywhere
and then there are artists where you
just can't replace it right Stuart right
arguably one of the best animals in
history of any genre yeah gather
oh yeah that's a no weight division
thing and yeah one of the all-time
greats the ollie is probably Rod Stewart
yeah okay um his songs you can have
other people sing them but in um
something other now journey I would
recognize the guitar player but that's
just as I listened to that kind that
part of the band
okay my favorite part of the orchestra
is the gong it's just clarify that but
Steve Perry who sang for journey okay
um was not so much a personality as an
eloquent sound yes all right so it's a
universal sound and if you even get
close to it it is part of every prom
every wedding every going in and coming
out party okay if you you're going into
the into the army that's the last song
the band's gonna play you're coming out
of jail they're gonna your girlfriend's
gonna pull you throw your bag to the
side and run you've seen the movie yes
okay even Tony Soprano we're not sure
what happened but it happened to journey
yes true that's right
this is right okay that's very
significant you can't play a David Lee
Roth song and still worry about Tony
Soprano right that's true
half of your mind is gonna go wait a
minute the long Ranger just walked into
the same diner that Tony's it's it's why
I have no acting career mmm
I'm already a character lone ranger sits
down next to you says Joe there's a
forest it's a dark forest you're not
getting lost in any story yes and your
legs go that's tough
right right right right a good actor
will sit down and go a dark forest
fucking scary right
some people can become that other person
yeah and then some people are stuck
being David Lee wrong exactly you know
Denzel walks out and then it's space
shit you go wow that's an astronaut he
could be anything you know he's a walker
bad Dave rock comes he goes what's Dave
doing in a spacesuit right exactly
yeah we're not buying it yeah yeah I'm
already kind of a cultural yeah you're
anything you're already a thing yeah
that's that's uh that's really
interesting how there's all these great
bands with great sounds and great vibes
and they're all different
well if you think in terms of the
personality let's think of a band oh I
just saw John Mayer great show all right
and when you think of John you think of
who that is in the neighborhood and the
vibe and the mood before perhaps you
even think of a specific song mm okay um
as soon as you know well you I know his
hits I know his songs but it was the
same thing that the fellows in the
Grateful Dead who said they're
identifying that vibe what's more
important the jokes or the person hmm
what's more important you or specific
jokes because some of your jokes are
bound if I go flat I don't care it's Joe
yeah but some of the Joe the only way
they some of them the only way they work
is with you like there's some people
like Mitch Hedberg his perfect example
like you couldn't separate Mitch Hedberg
from the jokes because he was the jokes
he was part of what made it funny you're
right I ran into Jeffrey Ross the other
day okay and he did Mike bumps into
telling ya who's managing them that's a
movie to happening those two right
that's why that's a man foul lemon
action cook yes okay that's a billion
dollar fucking franchises Bernie
Brillstein still alive get after this
link Bernie's along hasn't
agent stellar yes it is it is if they
were walking around in the park doing
warm-up for their routine you know and
the Netflix special I expect the
clapboard Woody Allen to walk out and go
I think that's a tank I think though
that with guys like that especially
those two guys the best product is them
on stage yes I'm fucking around you
really don't want to make a movie you
just want to keep doing what they're
doing with Netflix well this is the
visited vibe you have them be there's
there are some folks like Jason straight
them yes okay yeah she's always the same
so same haircut yeah he's always Jason
yes right but this is Jason in different
time periods right Jason in a fast cars
Jason on a horse I don't know but if
he's always that and this is what
compels me some folks are very joke
dependent now take my wife place right I
don't think that kind of thing um
yourself is the audience that you see
when it's like at the comedy club I've
seen you at the comedy club um it's the
same audience as fight night sometimes
yeah yeah it's real similar in a weird
way I was weird I see that I see George
Michael eyebrows because I'm always
trying to figure it out yeah they're
real similar you know it's a weird
crossover but what makes it weird what's
weird that I do cage fighting commentary
and stand-up comedy in the first place
it's weird that those two things work
together that doesn't that doesn't know
that makes perfect shit for you know
somebody I'm funny not happy yes yeah
funny you ain't happy yeah there's a big
difference yeah the more unhappy you you
are the better the funny really think so
absolutely really if you know how to
channel mm well that's certainly the
case in some situations I'm open to all
possibilities when it comes to comedy I
know people that are really happy and
really funny and I know people that are
really dark and also really funny like I
don't know it's just it's different it's
different with different people just
like music is different with different
bands and different singers exist City
either works or doesn't it really
depends upon how much time and effort
you take working on yourself your act
your perspective that we deliver it we
always had to win in Van Halen we had no
choice we had to win the battle of the
bands it was competitive yeah we had to
win over the club owner this was before
there were dance systems Irwin Vega
hadn't in Denton figured out those bass
bins yet you had to have a live band 5
45 minutes that's a night place was your
motherfucker closer song or you knew a
band couldn't go on after you Lagrange
yeah oh yeah we were pretty good at
anything we had no development phase mmm
I have tapes of us at the Hilton Hotel
in Pasadena 1973 you would if I didn't
tell ya you know wouldn't you would
think it was three years ago what kind
of a sound there's virtually no
development how'd that happen how did it
work that way
we had classical training all right and
this kind of speaks to what we were
discussing earlier in that a lot of my
colleagues are having a great time
making music and they celebrate and it's
the word fun comes into it and we grew
up in classical music backgrounds where
you had to challenge for first chair
saxophone mm every six eight months you
got to go to the conductor's say I want
first chair mmm and if your first chair
and he thinks I have a shy he's gonna
come over Joyce's Roth's talked about
you
whoo you both you both get will play
this piece in front of the orchestra
next Wednesday
you best practice okay and we'll both
get up and we'll both play 18 bars of
the same piece you dig yeah they're just
maybe a switch in front of a hundred and
twenty people mm all of them colleagues
all right we learned from in music
school you know the racy stuff was
big-band all right if you're in terms of
you know we played rocket roll in
parallel but big band it's got a square
vibe to it because it wound up in
elevators in restaurants
whatever but they had cut inconscious
and there was nothing more cutting than
Benny Goodman vs. Chick Webb big band at
Roseland Ballroom that shit is on people
would bet on it they would play the same
four songs you play your version of it
and we'll play ours
yeah throw down a big band throat oh
yeah and it was furious shit too
you know it wasn't like friendly dancers
would stand in the middle of those
sparks and that's where you get that
yeah he's postures enough like this okay
and the dancers were competing the Lindy
Hop is capiche
Wow Frankie you know these guys throw it
um so it's competitive mmm and we
learned that's how you do it you know my
two mentors in music were first and
second share clarinet the LA
Philharmonic and it comes from that also
you know you have a whole different vibe
that I'll take a Grateful Dead approach
which is the complete opposite of that
competition man leave that at home bro
ya know well we're here to celebrate and
so and I completely understand that's
where I'll go after work
take my vest off it took a totally
different turn right they said go ahead
tape all of our shows come you know sell
food in the parking lot man we had to
win we are we didn't eat boxing for
money it's different than boxing for fun
right right learn that very early and we
learned it through music yeah you know
some of the folks learn it in the ring
other folks learn it in their first few
days and a law firm or and they join a
team it's interesting the way you
describe it with music because I try to
explain that to comedians I say think
about how much time a musician has to
spend practicing and how little we spend
practicing we
our practice is in front of the audience
for the most part it's a simplified
version of this ten big apartment a
simplified version of the how many hours
rule is the 10,000 hours yeah you've
heard about yes that's a very simplified
version mm-hmm okay that's digestible
10,000 hours I don't know you break that
down was that take six years maybe
something like this the true Asian
paradigm is 10 hours a day every single
day for 10 years if you have a little a
little kid he's got to have heart
surgery you want that guy rats right
around 30,000 hours if you're gonna go
flying in a helicopter over New York
City you want captain poly try muqtada
it's about 40,000 hours okay my dentist
dr. Glassman who teaches is a $40,000
man okay so if you ever crash or get
belted give me a call I will hook you up
it's about 30,000 hours in that's ten
hours a day every single day for ten
years and that's what creates a jet
pilot a great surgeon
a great writer yeah anything in the arts
and lives that's that's the architect
unless you're a prodigy and if you
bungle that and typing it's tragedy very
easily so yeah prodigies and tragedies
often go hand in hand something about
people that get things very easily that
for whatever reason it slips through
their fingers more quickly as well when
my sister my dad was an eye surgeon okay
did well and when my sister's wanted to
go to college he said I think that's a
great idea and made her pay for it she
wouldn't value it if she didn't pay for
it herself it's probably right I signed
my first contract when I was
13 $150 stereo and three records I
worked all summer shoveling shit at the
local horse table it's where I learn
Spanish I don't know that you got it do
that you learn the same thing from
sports okay yeah your kids do sports
yeah which ones martial arts and one of
them is really into gymnastics yeah yeah
are they competitive in it or are they
do they enjoy themselves are they on
team like they're unturned aren't
tournaments or yeah and is that
something that the get-go here I'll back
up I'm leading up to something can you
guess yeah I think you always are folks
folks are starting to recognize certain
traits in me as in I really like the
getting ready more than the actual show
really the actual show I'm making fun
here and be a poetic right the monitor
blows the guitar players pissed the
spotlights on the wrong guy I have a
cold but that's six weeks six weeks
leading up to it I remember the rear so
we did another thing and when we
recorded the track over that they
remember when we got measured for the
shoes that fuck and it was great and
it's where did we eat after that I gotta
go back there and yeah we sought to make
those rehearsals and whatever as
memorable as possible because you can do
a whole lot more getting ready then you
are throwing the punch
yeah ask anybody on one of your shows
yes yeah you have such a great insight
for that though you know some people
they mean even if they're aware of it
they're not consciously aware of it
they're not focusing all these details
the getting ready is as much of a if the
band says they don't like Rare erson
you're doing it wrong mmm a man's like
if you're sitting on your laurels you're
wearing them on the wrong part of your
body
[Laughter]
first off where are you rehearsing right
as in Miami no where are you training
Hawaii Cleveland okay let's talk because
even in Cleveland you can turn it into
your place do you follow what is your
routine you find what music did you
listen to hmm you dig how did you warm
up simple simple things you know most
people are feared terrified of singing
when they go into singing em I don't
care who it is the first verse is always
a little tight and the second verse is a
little better why because they didn't
warm up right all right and the idea of
well go in and sing along with a dozen
of your favorite songs put your headgear
on get the reverb to Santa for me that
starts with Motown I'm a soul growler
I'm closer to Wilson Pickett than the
guy in the Rolling Stones I don't know
what that sounds like on the headphones
but you know that's I spent many I'm
gonna put the headphones on hear that
babe yeah that's right I started
sounding like that when I was 12 I
started practicing that when I was 12 I
started imitating the persuasions Gerry
Butler's singer -13 much to the Cantor's
chagrin in Hebrew school okay
again parallel existences you know I'm
Jewish but we've always walked around
with little buttons back then that said
never again I'm a combat hippie peace
love and heavy weapons some people don't
believe sometimes you got to get
insistent did you ever realize while you
were while you were in the middle of
this especially in the beginning in the
early days that this was that you mean
you guys had especially with Van Halen
in the early days you guys had a massive
impact on culture were you guys aware of
that like while it was happening how I
mean you when I was in high school I
when I graduated in 1985 and you guys
were the shit my girlfriend might my
sisters rather boyfriends my sisters
boyfriends license plate I am with a
soundtrack yeah I'm the soundtrack to
your okay I get it now absolutely I mean
what was that that the Jew was in jail
yeah it was intentional I can tell you
now the Van Halen's knew it but can't
articulate it but right there
instrumentalists here comes the funny
joke words em my thing I understood the
words em my thing so you realized it why
it was happening well your endgame
depends on how you started it's like
chess right and we began very early on
identifying that there's a whole lot of
different neighborhoods in Southern
California
I knew this from being with my dad all
of his patients was like a Benetton ad
yeah you know that's part of the beauty
of Pasadena you got everybody okay and
okay what you play at the birthday party
in the spanish-speaking neighborhood
O'Reilly some kind of you got to change
your evil ways
broken yeah is different than what we're
going to play for the surfers out of
Venice Beach
that's Aerosmith stuff like this and
then you have the working man okay out
in San Bernardino that's easy job right
subtle but important genius is in the
details and how you interact with that
crowd in between we would play out and
pull money at a biker bar guy got killed
right in front of us and we finished the
song what happened a couple of bike bike
gangs went at it and
there's a scrap and when everybody
cleared out there was a fella right in
the middle of the floor next night we
came back vengeance had been sworn there
are police everywhere we pulled the amps
out from the wall so we could hide
behind the amps 70s it was a mighty time
Wow and we played on the Queen Elizabeth
for really fancy oh my god I remember
sitting on that ballroom at 4:00 in the
morning in the days when we carried our
own equipment and stuff and thinking of
all the people who had been in there and
everybody to perform there and so forth
and dozens and dozens of places you know
that were all a little bit different and
our thing was that we could play
anywhere we had to otherwise we had to
feed ourselves all right and that meant
five 45-minute sets at night five six
nights if you could get it we would
ping-pong all over the Southland
anywhere we could drive for two hours
two hours north south or east is how we
would do and every neighborhood was a
little different and that shows up in
the music you know now you can take a
look at something like dance the night
away or Jamie's crying there's a there's
a Latino influence in that okay
doo-doo-doo that's Ricky Ricardo you
will say well what's your favorite Cuban
expecting me to name a cigar say Ricky
Ricardo
but it's rumba Lamott dude now you're
thinking about you go yeah Incan and if
you listen to dance the night away the
middle break is all cha cha cha Chi is
definitely because here this is you know
are you're surrounded by Hispanic
culture here and we had heavy metal
influences okay we had super wealthy
stuff so you have to be able to move to
acoustic you got to be able to ease up
if you get hired for a wedding and more
importantly perhaps you know artist to
artist I don't know it Springsteen
better during the song or in the
mmm careful we're going to the Broadway
show
yeah yeah that's about a $12,000 ticket
now and I'm guessing I'm guessing before
t-shirt right and I'm guessing that yeah
I haven't seen the whole show I've saw
some of it on Netflix and the very pivot
of it is the in between songs yeah
the songs are almost secondary you know
they're almost peripheral to his
narration in his descriptions and his
poetry well he sets a deep I like you
have to hear the in-between stuff you
want to hear and brood you want to hear
him talk you want to hear him think
about things yes and where do you learn
that we're dealing that mm-hmm already
I'm gonna count to 30,000 Joe yeah hours
and hours and hours and when we're done
you'll be able to you know Joe that's
not a good Springsteen you know you're a
good man Joe we what I was trying to get
at was does it ever freak you out like
when you're ever alone and you think
about what you guys did and what you've
done in your career
does it ever freak you out the impact
you've had if you looked at the amount
of human beings that have had the kind
of impact that you've had it's a the
tiniest tiniest fraction of a percent
like the amount of human beings that can
relate to your personal life experience
I'll paraphrase the James Brown movie
there's two of them both of them were
helpful helpfully produced by Jagger
okay
and he doesn't interview he goes there's
a little bit of me in every bucket you
hear yeah he's in the DNA yeah there's a
little bit of David Lee Roth in there
yeah there's a little bit whenever you
see videos today doesn't matter if it's
hip-hop
doesn't matter if it's rock'n'roll
doesn't matter if it's classic or
pitbull you dig
there's old you can trace it back you
follow right and it's not yeah I don't
think of it as impact that's a result
what's the verb contribution yeah at
family reunions whatever we go
everybody picks a word and my favorite
word ever was contribution did you try
mmm you know go climb the tree here's my
favorite poem
I saw it inscribed on a rock by an
anonymous poet at the base just sort of
base camp on Everest go climb the
treasure mountain do not return
empty-handed
where are you now hmm yeah that's some
GPS shit what's interesting about music
that's different than anything else - is
it brings you back to the moment where
you heard it or when it was significant
to you or where you know like if I hear
dance the night away if I'm in my car
and dance the night away comes on it's
just like God you get goosebumps you
just you have this feeling you feel like
you're back in Newton Massachusetts in
high school my favorite audience is
disbelieving non-believers non smilers
give me a room a North Korean who hate
everything about the trips starting with
the airport yeah get distance like this
why those they hate rock and roll you
give me two choruses son of a ha first
we're gonna drive away the evil spirits
we might use a little volume to do that
Joe use a little this here we go drive
away the evil spirits and then I'm gonna
make you feel young and skinny how much
is that worth lyin estimable inestimable
yeah that's the thing about music that's
different than anything else it really
does change your mood it elevates you
well you do that if you please
it's also we have like like a big glass
bowl you mean all history and we and no
movies don't do that
books will if you used a paperback and
you open it up and the pages are still
dried from the vacation Sun you know you
were reading it at the beach and the
salt there made the page is kind of old
and dry and crackly and some sand comes
out and you get the memory yeah all
right music we'll take you right back
right back right back the women will
feel desirable you will feel
invulnerable you guys are making songs
like saying run with the devil so
how do you know when you're done no it's
not when you're done its how'd you get
there right that informs the whole thing
okay
somebody asked me once how long did it
take you to write running with the devil
and that's an astute question I said
well the true answer is if you watch a
thousand movies many of the multiple
times if you've played thousands and
thousands of hours in clubs and bars
if you've read I don't know five hundred
books tried to memorize all the good
parts take about 18 minutes write the
song see you guys are out running with
the devil in 18 minutes yeah really
yes Jesus Christ okay but deston
rhapsody in blue right you're right it
took 22 minutes to come up with the
basic theme and the rest of its
improvisation how would you guys write
how would you guys get together and say
the whole point is not the 18 minutes
it's the whole lifetime before it it's
everything that led up to that now van
Halen we never took a demo tape around
because we didn't get lost in the stack
we said if we're as good as we think we
are
they'll come find us and if they don't
were not that's unforgiving instead of
the requisite two and a half three years
it takes for most acts we spent five and
a half years working the clubs and the
bars and everything like that so you
know we came in with scars and stars
we'd been we've done the State Fair
circuit like that I wasn't exactly new
same thing for Springsteen he'd done ten
years in the clubs in bars before yeah
you know Thunder Road and whatnot right
and you'll see this routinely I think
the Beatles did four or five years of
working in the red-light district
Reeperbahn and all the club shows and
stuff like that and they're adding up
they're getting that 10,000 and then
ultimately that $30,000 mark yeah the
Beatles there's I think it's Malcolm
Gladwell's book where he's talking about
the Beatles and they're there when they
came up when they were performing in
Germany and they were doing these shows
where they were doing multiple sets at
night every night of the week and that
this is really what made them so good is
this constant performing that they were
doing it so much it's so often that they
just became this smoothly oiled machine
if you have a team that you're working
together again this is another kind of
thing I learned along the way
40 hours a week is about your minimum if
there's a team like we're a rugby team
or a SWAT team or a emergency room
kind of a c-block kind of you know
intensive like that inner-city intensive
we call Vietnam sometimes it takes like
that 40 hours a week is batch of minimum
that you need to train together in order
to be going without looking at each
other right when the lights go out
you're you don't lose velocity so to
speak all right
um ultimately you'll start to look like
each other this is the nature of things
The Beatles look like each other mm van
Halen we looked like each other we all
have the same haircut we were the same
leather jackets too safe as we became I
think it's the golden times you know
these are the golden years that most
people look back on before the friction
of time implicates itself you get
married you have kids yeah
you bump your elbow now I got to get my
elbow work done and as you know and it's
the friction of time the rent expands
you know contracts etc and people
routinely look back on that as the
golden years you know your gang
everybody had one look back in graphic
arts you know the Picasso's and the
dollies and everybody wandered around in
gangs the great writers in New York all
hung out together and they didn't get
along you're always competing with each
other you're pretending to love each
other
I just read in New York Magazine some
advice from me art critic Jerry Saltz it
says create gangs and remember always
treat the weakest one is your best
friend because there's somebody else in
the gang who thinks you're the weakest
one yeah that's what you learn you know
as you go what are you gonna learn from
working the clubs and the bars and stuff
well my string just broke my nose is
running I'm angry my girlfriend's just
ran off with two not one guy should I
keep going
I'm underpaid non respect it's late and
I'm starting to sound like double dutch
bus to top it off I'm late to work that
got bad feet my corns hurt and you're
gonna play you will perform okay just as
you will expect that surgeon at 4:00 in
the morning this is my little baby girl
that unforgiving mm apply that to your
art ooh sage words sage words of advice
you have expectations you may not have
used them yet yeah when you guys wrote
songs how did you how did you put the
lyrics to the music what was the process
like how did you guys sort that out so
you would you come to them with an idea
would they come to you with a riff like
how would how would it work you
work a number of ways but a mistake that
a lot of young writers in my department
the lyrics make is that they think of it
as secondary mmm
they wait for the music or the track
first and then you'll walk into a studio
and hope that the hand of God will
descend and grace you with amazing
epiphanies I can't even spell amazing
alright and called upon to do it right
away you know you'll work out a beat and
go Dave you got some lyrics if I go walk
into that room and try to create it
right there nine times out of ten it's
gonna be moon in June right moon in June
really when some time soon mmm what time
of day I'm thinking noon literally I'm
gonna put my hands in the air why well
because I just don't care you wind up
there unless you're banking think like
debate if you're gonna debate somebody
you're banking your ideas right alright
and whatever the subject is you can
ghosts don't even have to have a subject
it's okay I like what he just said I
might even write that phrase I like what
you just said yeah could be a Drake
lyric any expressions ideas slogans
anything that comes from other tunes in
terms of their lyric and is everybody
contributing no that's just me just have
volumes of that and those kinds of ideas
ideas for songs storylines etc you would
never go into a fight without doing that
collecting moves around from every other
film of every other fighter that you
possibly can so that when somebody goes
like this you go oh I know what to do
someone suffers and then I'm gonna visit
like this and somebody says it's a song
about they play a song I go well it
sounds kind of like cowboy music let's
write about Cowboys
mmm going through the banking giddyup
that's cool title I heard a cowboy I
said on the TV set and I wrote it down
literally okay and you start back you
could I see the lights come on and you
start banking okay somebody says
something you dig I heard somebody a
waitress named pepper with an unlit Pall
Mall cigarette tell me uh honey nothing
could have stopped us back then d anyway
that's a title that is a time I wrote a
song to it did you oh yeah where was
this waitress on the road just uh well
she also had something else it said she
leaned home she showed back that
cleavage a little bit and she looked she
go keep your fork honey there's pie and
you write it down yeah banking yeah I
like the term they use in debate your
banking banking your ideas so when you
would go on the road and someone say
some of that you would physically write
it down and go home and write it down
today today all the time Bank yeah and
it goes into the books and then when
it's time to deal with a given says you
listen to music if the music came first
in you know what's just remind you so
that sounds like kung-fu that sounds
like country that sounds like engines
are coming
it's and on and on you follow you might
suggest an idea to write things down
physically or do you type them mmm I
print print yeah and I paint and draw
routinely okay as you know that's part
of the martial arts
okay sure miyamoto musashi yep but when
I was in Japan two and three nights a
week I what we call it training I did
assume yay with Sumi any teachers duress
Samia it's some like calligraphy pen and
ink in in the world of the digital
future I spent two years practicing four
shades of grey and two shades of black
mmm yeah you want to see my lesson can
you can you focus a camera if I stand up
can you fucker you well here's my lesson
okay okay I'm gonna walk from here to
here okay I'm here painting okay I'm the
only guy in the room
okay no yeah okay
after six months I heard better Jesus
Christ after almost ten months shit that
because mr. Roth I think you are my best
student Oh I said not my painting he
said none of not your painting you are
most determined you are most sincere you
really enjoy most like Desmond
thank you sir he said I wish to invite
you to Directors meeting sue me a
society whoa
that's I made the same face I said whoa
when is that he said right now we pulled
out a bottle of sake that's few little
cups okay one of my best friends
it took Wow first shit four six six six
first six months I might have got seven
words well for a guy like that in this
day and age it must be insanely
difficult to get someone to have that
sort of appreciation for commitment well
it's it's a national
thing yeah you learned that stuff in
grade school and it's sort of like music
classes okay painting and calligraphy is
as well-known as perhaps piano lessons
that what were you thinking while you
were doing all this while you're
learning this and spending months and
months I focus on specifically that
knowing that at the end of the term I'm
going to be a little I'm sharpening
things a little bit and when I'm called
upon even to have the discussion like
this yeah I I can bring a little
contribution to it yeah it can be more
entertaining for all of you listening to
this it can you know that's an amazing
recognition that you have though that
you realized while you were doing this
that even though consciously all you're
doing is doing calligraphy you're
working on other parts of your mind
I knew I was never gonna pay for shit
fifty Shades of Dave but you were still
focusing 100% of your energy on doing it
while you're doing it yeah yeah and
there's something to that
oh yeah it's the preparation what are
you doing now that's weird
oh well I went corporate you okay oh
yeah 34 employees you do it I have
offices at one Park Avenue and usually
like that I'm a guy who might go off the
grid and be very difficult to find in
the I got offices at the beach in my
company is we're about eight million
dollars into it here running that kind
of a team and dealing with the people
because it's art centric what is this
team what's it about this is this
happens to the original is my stuff and
I didn't just hire a bunch of people to
pass things in front of me I designed
what that logo looks like I put together
what the general everything okay at all
and then I hired the architects and said
build this create this so it's virtually
everything that you know how to do as an
artist because you have to keep
everybody entertained you have to be
creative on levels everything from Adobe
Photoshop to social engineering and plan
forming dealing with marketing
publishing all the way that publishing
is changing magazines now make e digital
are you approaching this the same way
you approached calligraphy
oh you bat art centric singing and
dancing paid every penny for the company
and this is what I bring to it mostly
when you have a celeb get involved in
something like I don't know
JLo does fashion hmm she's not really
taking a pen and ink and drawing out the
words and drawing out the clothes
somebody passes things in front of her
and she makes sounds I'm assuming it
goes like this I'm the guy who has to
interpret those sounds yeah and because
there's got to be sense of humor
right next to the name of my company is
laugh to win mmm and it doesn't have
anything to do with mirth mmm all the
best pirates laugh especially if it's
the last one um few of these are gonna
detonate on the freeway home not sure
when you're how much of your time how
much your time is involved in this mmm
no significant amount of time we're back
and forth and so you look a real
professional now like a professional
corporate dude you look at the 50 hour
work week thing and no no it's art
centric okay all right it starts with
what was the need what was they well the
need that is like when al Han old goats
climbing he's gonna put on some sunblock
and he doesn't want to touch that shit
for another four hours right so I built
it for him okay I act my two molars and
walked around for three years with no
molars on this side of my head when I
caught dengue fever whoa okay cuz the
sunblock and the stuff that had the
mosquito shit in it washed off when I
got out of the ocean so I solved
and we are stripper friendly but we are
not strippers so I don't want shiny so
it's like once I want sadden set whoa
okay I don't want to shiny there's room
for shiny like you know Friday nights
sure honor and as far as fragrances
thank you no mmm okay it took three
years and more than you want a quote to
solve that because every time you go and
you smell something you crack the jar of
anything somebody has played with that
probably in New Jersey okay think like
this I'm already doing the pitch you
like ice cream you know what your kids
do gelato even better okay suppose you
want to make coconut vanilla all right
well if you're buying most products you
got to just go to one Factory in New
Jersey true story
the L'Oreal's the Neutrogena ziz so
forth and they're gonna take the smell
of coconut and the smell of vanilla and
then it makes it so far this kind of a
thing the fact is the cow lives in a
very different place than the coconut
lady who grows coconuts and the guy is
going to sell you your vanilla lives in
a whole nother country the reason that
ice cream tastes so good as somebody got
their ass on an airplane and flew to all
three places and that's what my staff
does our staff is artisanal slike craft
scotch from the Carolinas which put your
Pendleton on we're going to Portland
really and then we're gonna go to
Seattle because that's just one product
it's my artisanal art thing that I do
there and it came from a need behind the
scenes started years ago when we'd be
climbing and stuff would get all over
our hands and all over our ropes
we'd be kayaking and somebody keep
dropping the oars because something was
slippery and you follow yeah so okay
someday I'm gonna solve this someday
I'm gonna solve this when you're in your
20s there's an aha moment when you're my
age there's more than one and that's
when we went again third time today and
we began to expand laughs to win make
ink the original and we have 60 other
products coming up all of it developed
for people who live in vans like Alex
Honnold hmm
folks who live in transit at hotels
people who live
orbn camping is what we do especially
me and my tour bus everything I do is in
the disco submarine we travel and you
got to be familiar everywhere even
Canada even Canada and and and today we
travel the entire world with impunity
you go to South America you go to Europe
and something as simple when you go to
Japan you're really gonna go find dental
floss on you're on now you're not
paleface you got to take me because
otherwise you're doing Pantha mine yeah
I wait until you get a bad stomach and
you got a pan of mine that too little
weight yeah okay um all of these things
okay I got a stabilize got to fit in my
backpack every container has to be able
to be sat on in a third-world Airport
you got to be able to Stevie Wonder it
in your backpack
it's an insensitive illusion analogy but
every one of our containers is such that
you can stick your hand in the bag while
you're driving and find it I'm safety
conscious what do you have kids in the
car so this is done by design the shape
of the package is done by design so
you've absolutely absolutely what does
it look like pull it up Jamie you can
read our logos from across the Atlantic
Ocean all right
having worked and played there in the
diner cake
suppose your granddaddy doesn't speak
English mm-hmm okay all of our products
have this kind of low going here
all right so translate this to granddad
into Cambodia and granddad you're going
to water exercise everybody there's
gonna have their own gear take yours
make sure grandma puts this one on and
that works in 82 languages I like the
logo okay thank you cool-looking bottle
of sunscreen thank you
you got hand grip in case you're wearing
gloves at work in a lot of times when
we're waiting in the projects okay and
the rain storms are wearing two gloves
you got your rubber gloves and you got
your duty gloves on all right
you still got the no-slip grip on the
side fair enough and you got a daughter
right she's gonna grow up to be somebody
right and hanging around with guys and
controlling guys my dad worked in the
prison system the last 20 years of his
life okay did I surgeries up and Folsom
San Quentin
Norco Pelican Bank etc little skinny
Jewish doctor how do you control a level
for violent lifers theater okay you're
gonna tell your daughter don't pull
anything pink out of your purse if
you're sitting with a bunch of guys pull
that stuff out mmm it's the right color
right if you're at a legal briefing you
got to be a boss don't pull any cerulean
blue especially if it's shiny vinyl out
of your purse you can't have a purple
that pull that yeah it says boss yeah in
22 language in it like what's in it that
makes it work well like that makes it
waterproof and it's 100% in the
brightener for example it's organics
okay
it's a brightener well it makes your
tattoo shiny you bet even stays on just
shorter forever it's days on when you go
swimming so forth okay and what do you
always do when somebody goes hey what's
that new peace symbol you lick your
finger and you're of it and you show it
before it dries out it
okay I'm gonna deal with the vanities as
guys you never want to say you give a
shit right I would teach my kid to say
that if I add one hey your tattoos
looking a little rusty I don't give a
shit learn how to say that in a few
languages right okay but you know you
give a shit otherwise you wouldn't have
gotten a paint job right
I mean you want the girls to know you
got a peace symbol anyways cuz you look
kind of me like me great put your finger
away will you
we got to clean up that's a factory old
thing so what's the nez enough you're
gonna make all the mistakes too you're
gonna go out and you're gonna try and
find cheap shit moisturizers did you get
a put on there and you're gonna smear it
all over yourself and it's gonna look
like that scene from Something About
Mary when she wants that shit and
everybody's gonna think was that shit
all over Bobby's arm it's like this and
it's gonna get all over your t-shirt
right and your wife has a $600 t-shirt
doesn't she Joe mm-hmm okay so you got
to consider all of this okay I saw a
nice car out there I'm guessing there's
nice upholstery in it yeah I took that
into consideration I got you covered
oh okay and it's the smell of victory
there it goes now today's vitamin C shea
butter and coconut oil not tested on
animals dermatologist reviews yeah man
we're paraben free petroleum free we are
full list of ingredients here we go what
is all this jazz we are one of the few
products here that is reef safe
allowable in Hawaii okay the limits of
what's going into the oceans now and the
tourist areas of the world in Hawaii you
can count on one hand the products
they're allowing to be used on the
beaches and even in the swimming pool so
you know now so that comes so this is a
hundred percent organic stuff it's all
waxes and butters yeah when people talk
about miracle ingredients I don't know I
think in terms of there's water and then
there's feed
butter eggs sugar flour that's all that
there is in the bakery all right
we invented the cronut okay you take the
best of this and the best of that and
the considerations again come from life
experience
I didn't just look at myself and go wow
here's an idea to make money my fortunes
been made what we did is find what we
can use when we're living out of
backpacks what we can use when we go
dance and I still go dancing and I don't
leave that floor for four hours where do
you go dancing I'm not telling you oh
yeah routine really oh you bet
where you gonna show that ink right
follow today I know in New York City for
example mr. chin lives right next to mr.
Gomez they both live over mr. Katzenberg
mr. radik ovitch owns the building none
of them can speak to each other they all
speak a different language they're all
different religions etc so there's two
ways we communicate first is swearing
you know how to do that I learned seven
eight words and swearing you can
describe anything this shows the shit
show you the shit thank you what kind of
shit are you doing lately that last
fight that was the shit we're having a
conversation okay like so and the next
is ink I see I got a chicken on one arm
and a cleaver you butcher and the girl
down there's got cupcakes with funny
noses let me guess he's got musical
notes can I guess more right and and add
in an Esperanto you walk out in front of
Columbia University it lunchtime it's
the future you would not know that it's
United States it is a complete composite
International just the smell of all the
food trucks mmm the last thing you smell
is salami and yellow cheese on white
bread thank God
say thank God in a few other languages
yeah really yeah okay so it's a
communication and that's part of my
fascination with it it's a constantly
evolving Esperanto art form I've visited
tribes in New Guinea who can't dance
they don't have they don't dance but
they did have tattooing mmm they did
have scars you know that's nice man they
found a little play sure that guy you
know they found his body I forget what
they call never care what his name is
but he had tattoos on them I mean he's
thousands of years old I mean it's very
recognizable favio is like sideburns and
flares and easy-listening we always make
fun but there's one of them in your past
that got banked on his hair I mean if
that guy went bald like me he'd be
fucked it still is the exact same
fabulous right yeah amazing genetics he
got a lucky break he's one of the
characters who are other characters like
that
Oh David Hasselhoff sure now has a
hassle book what is that it's well he
has his own Facebook thing holy shit
Anna Nicole Smith yes three pay there's
three phases
yeah first phase pretty dude yes jeans
ad right and then there's married to the
old dude yeah I kind of like the last
one to the rich right before she dies
Elvis had three phase
yeah so yeah but there are folks also
that don't have phase springsteen never
had a phase it was always Springsteen
there it is looking good Fabio
he's about 85 years old right I don't
see him working out a lot but he's there
what does he do if he's at the gym
I don't know talking about women and oh
damn still scoring nobody insurance
that's that's so on to think about it
but you don't but you do do but you
don't
yeah you want to think about the gal
that wants a bang Fabio super pumped
about it he's coming over in five
minutes gotta get ready what are you
watching on TV to have television yes
and and what are you watching regularly
because I don't have television I listen
to Sirius XM routinely well I listen to
like six different channels over and
over again there lately I'm watching the
marvelous mrs. Mazal which is a it's a
not Netflix queues me it's an Amazon
show it's an Amazon original show about
a stand-up comedian in the 1950s a woman
stand-up comedian who hangs out with
Lenny Bruce it's really good okay really
good show women stand-up comedians if
there's a great subject Sarah Silverman
yeah her right mm-hmm spectacular right
yeah she has a real hurdle because one
of the things that she does best is play
the part of the character she's
lampooning sure yeah yeah she plays the
part beautifully of a witless yep racist
whatever and her hurdle is that a large
segment of the audience doesn't realize
that it's an act well now now that's the
hurdle especially now if you go back and
look at some of our older bits and look
at any special if you looked at it
written down as opposed to her saying it
we're in such an overwhelmingly
sensitive time when it comes to subject
matter that yeah that would be a big
hurdle for now but it's the best work
ever
and it made such an impact the first
time I ever saw her do it and this is a
tradition that goes all the way back
during Lincoln mm-hmm
there was a fellow who wrote the nasbe
letters where he pretended to be a
southern racist and making fun of
southern races
pretending to be Lincoln kept the
articles clipped from the newspaper in
his drawer so he could read them
occasionally and laugh during the Civil
War you know this is a tradition of
acting out the character that you are
about to execute unfortunately there's a
lot what what is the chemistry that
folks don't understand that you are
pretending they don't care it's not it's
a dishonest approach they don't care
whether or not you're pretending what
they see you have said something or
there's something written that shows
that you said something that they feel
is in violation and so they want to go
after it
and it does shake in a sense yes it's
literal and it's also it's disingenuous
because they know it could be parody and
they don't care there's so much of that
today it's really interesting it's
really interesting because there's so
many people that are there just looking
for things to be upset about it's
recreational outrage and I think it's
probably because things are going so
well in this world
I mean sigh I mean some people say it's
not going that well you know there's a
lot of things to be fixed first it's the
safest time to be alive ever
it just is this is undeniably the safest
tell agree with that and I think people
are more open-minded than ever more kind
than ever there's less violence than
ever all you look at Pinker's work all
these things are trending in a very very
clear and obvious direction and I think
when you have coddled Minds and you have
more safety people start running around
looking for things to be upset at and
also a lot of young people that are very
idealistic think they're going to change
the world and one of the ways are going
to change the worlds by policing
language and policing the way people
talk about things and discuss things and
so stand-up comedy which is you know you
say a lot of things you don't really
mean because they're funny you know
that's the whole point behind it and so
it's ripe
as - as far as a target for that kind of
recreational outrage the musical
equivalent perhaps is really shitty
songs written about important subjects
yeah
yeah really shitty songs written about
important subjects or offensive the
melody sound reminds you of overdue
dentist the points the singing sounds
like hot water being thrown but it's
about starving children right what's a
good example no don't go there
if you criticize the song even if you
excuse a it's just musically right that
sounds like we shall overcome oh wow
that's about patch yeah I love pets
beautiful well you just and with these
movies like that too right there's
movies about really important subjects
that are terrible movies like how many
who caused me to think that if it's are
really really important subject it
probably is a terrible movie
yeah most likely why do I think that
right well there's no way to really get
an important subject and boil it down to
two hours oh I didn't think of that
you know give me two hours yeah I mean
especially like one thing that drives me
crazy is when they take liberties with
someone's biography like if they do a
biography on someone's life and they've
changed things around or add things to
it for theatrical Flair
did you see the Queen movie no I did not
see I haven't seen it either I heard
it's very good though you heard it's
very good yes you asked the person who
told you that why it's good yes yes what
did they share they said the first of
all the guy who plays Freddie Mercury
apparently is brilliant in it and it's
had they seen origin had they seen
Freddie lies no not live I saw Freddie
live at the Forum I was in the maybe
20th row 6 in when Bohemian Rhapsody had
just come out oh my goodness yeah I saw
him in his absolute that his major major
prime there so I'm very curious as to
well stagecraft is one thing but what
Freddie was and what he brought was way
more than what you saw on stage yeah
yeah fella what was he bringing
well his sensibilities in terms of music
weren't just three chords in an attitude
and they'll fall for that shit either if
Keith ever sits here and tries that she
is alright Rogan you know you just need
three three codes in an attitude yeah
and you need to know the inversions of
each one all 7 modal not fuck you Keith
when I think is he doesn't know all
those and the trick tunings and whatever
yeah um Freddie brought a whole wealth
of listening to different kinds of music
whether it was orchestral big band
Bistro
you mean done it that yeah that's
bestrode what do you call it music mute
music small something you might hear in
a coffee shop in France
well his music was so different his
singing was so different than anything
else from his era but you listen to we
are the champions he didn't try to sing
black ok
sang Freddie Mercury he's saying
European non black what we're very used
to even in country hmm I had a very
famous black producer african-american
producer say to me David Lee
do you know what it means to be a black
man in the United States to - every time
I step up to the mic I try that's what I
grew up with right trying to sound like
Motown you trying to sound like Wilson
Pickett trying to sound like and on and
on that that you know that voter block
had such an impact on music much less
the overall culture in comedy as well I
mean if I had a vote for boom greatest
all-time comedian would be prior the
greatest of all time I would I would
have to say it's he's in the running I
mean if it's not him I don't know who it
is
I'll agree with ya or so many some I
mean when you look at African American
stand-up comedians in the contribution
in terms of like the overall numbers the
top ten a giant chunk of them were black
a giant shark Chappelle Chris Rock
definitely Pryor it guys that guys
Bernie Mac Bernie Mac was a goddamn
genius you know there's a lot of people
who don't know about Robin Harris Robin
Harris is a huge influence to people in
the 90s the 80s and the 90s when he died
he died died thinking though early 90s
you're illuminating for the audience but
here you're preaching to they already
convinced judge yeah what's I think it's
because of the I grew up with comedy
records yeah okay thanks Redd Foxx and
if you see you can still hear red doing
on the classic comedy channel on Sirius
XM and his shit is still funny still
good and it's a if that's read let's
revisit is it the delivery system it's
everything or the thing because you
can't celebrate
I started imitating Redd Foxx when I was
probably 12 years old yeah yeah I sure
do it and you know I mean Bill Kavi
Cosby was obviously a horrible person in
retrospect but his art form his artwork
was amazing I mean I listen comedy
records you memorized word-for-word you
memorized Richard Pryor you're memorized
Redd Foxx you memorize Bill Cosby and
you memorized Rodney Dangerfield oh yeah
okay those are the four horsemen yeah
and if when you run out of conversation
at a beer soaked frat party high school
whatever which is in about two sentences
you say you either quote your favorite
movies yeah that's how you eat converse
as guys you know hey you know let's see
where it fucking blows them away fuck
good and you express ourselves or you go
you start you know I can't get no
respect
yeah yeah and doctor told me I have to
run it I even try this with the staff I
said David how you doing say yeah ma'am
doctor told me I had to run ten a mile a
day and then call him on ten days later
and well I'm calling you I'm ten miles
away
Rodney Dangerfield okay you learned
comedy records and you sat around the
record player and learned it I don't
think people do that no no that was a
thing man when I was a kid we listened
to Cheech and Chong big bamboo would all
sit around and listen to the record yeah
man and that was a different one too
because they weren't even doing stand-up
there that was a completely unique thing
they were doing sketch comedy on a
record it's interesting that pot culture
which is international now okay
um started with an Asian and Hispanic
yeah they fucking were the kings of it
age you can again sideburns yeah
the way it was those we make fun yeah
but everybody on earth knows Cheech and
Chong how many decades later how many
decades
I went rock climbing as far away as
humanly possible from anything ever made
by God man or others place called a rap
Alize it's about four hours north of
Melbourne out in the middle of nowhere
big sand drip castles you can dial it up
a fire or a police and we had a couple
of campers like trucks that we parked
and we put up a tarp in the middle and
campfire and whatever and I had a little
uh a little television screen and we
plugged that into the car battery okay
you know I went to the other campsites
because we fucked up not broad enough
whatever it was water food or whatever
that's our appellees Wow and I went to
the different campsites and invited
everybody you know hey man can I borrow
this and you guys got any oatmeal or
anything like this today yeah we're
gonna be watching Cheech and Chong over
under the far edge over there you'll see
us he'll he'll come on over and join us
from all over the world you got guys
from Thailand you got girls from England
everybody knew Cheech and Chong it was
the great leveler Wow all right and we
sat there in sub-zero temperatures
swaddled and sleeping bags laughing in
seven languages
gosh damn look you don't even need
subtitles yeah you read the movie
they're back together doing it again
which is amazing and they had to get
those guys in here long as they're
talking to each other to make sure are
they actually talking to each other or
has this gone Eddie and Dave for awhile
don't know and Eddie and day for a while
but they're back yeah they're back
together well they were touring quite I
think success brought them back together
again they realize like everybody wants
to see Cheech and Chong everybody
doesn't really want to see Chong or
Cheech you know I mean not that
everybody doesn't want to see them but
that the numbers are so different the
numbers of people that I meet Tommy talk
to a beloved guy but the together
they're there exponentially more
powerful
it's the Everly Brothers yes yes yes yes
it's but the culture changed a man of
his times sometimes the times changes
and yes look how the times now represent
that which they you know free I mean
those guys whatever they were doing
something that was illegal this was an
illegal comedy there was a legal subject
matter today in Studio City you could
spend a ten-day vacation if you came
from somewhere and just worked from the
sushi bar to the dispensary on Studio
City there's a space that's about two
miles long
you could spend ten days come visit us
from Japan stay at the Marriott all the
way in here whatever at a universal and
you can't just work from sushi bar to
dispensary from sushi bar to dispatcher
there Turin look at that up on the
screen there's a whole schedule and
where are they working I can't read it
it says they're in Richmond BC the River
Rock Casino and Vancouver at the Hard
Rock South Lake Tahoe there's a bunch of
places San Juan Puerto Rico in the house
what's on average age of comics today
the best ones are in their 40s and 50s
it seems like right now really yeah
between Chris Rock Dave Chappelle oh
you're right okay see can that BRR yeah
other basket Joey Diaz all the best guys
are in their fifties because it does
change when you think like
I don't know there's a lot of gangster
movies on Netflix right yeah and when
it's that then the fellas are older
they're wearing tuxedos you know they're
in nightclubs likes eros kind of uh
yeah the 21 club and then that changed -
yeah Comedy Cellar and you know
something like that today it's also
about productivity like you you have to
be able to put out material and because
most of us are doing Netflix specials
now and most of us seem to be on a
schedule of doing one every couple of
years so you have to be able to turn
over an hour every couple of years and
then take that hour and hammer that
motherfucker down to a samurai sword
excuse me a katana
polished that blade hammer it down
polished that blade you have to have it
and then you have to know when to
release it which is one of the things
that I asked like how do you know when
you're writing a song like running with
the devil how do you know when it's done
because with a bit you kind of don't
know because you do it differently all
the time you fuck around with it onstage
and you know I'm a how long does it take
to do an hour because it changes it
changes there's no real one thing I like
sometimes I've come up with a new hour
and like like four or five months and
sometimes it's taking me a whole year
it's just really it's really different
every time depending upon how much
effort I put into it and also depending
about how lucky I get with subjects like
sometimes there's a subject that's just
rich almost like it you hit a goldmine
and like you hit all that you hit that
money like ah there's so much here and
there's so many also branching off
Little rivers from this mind this one
initial mind so there's there's that you
never know you never know it's it's it's
hard to tell
fascinating mess around with it it moves
and changes I'd do it differently all
the time you know I'm a giant fan of
Lynyrd Skynyrd and one of the things
that I always thought was crazy about
Skynyrd was their riffs when they would
do guitar riffs it was the same riff
they wouldn't when they would do a solo
their solos were like orchestrated like
they don't get enough credit for
bringing dynamic musical artists as well
as these southern dudes that were just
drinking and singing about whiskey and
getting away from women like their fat
ugly dudes and most their songs are
about getting
away from women like I gotta go I gotta
be free I'm moving on
call me the breeze it was like I gotta
get the fuck out of here but you lock me
down that was a big part of their music
but when you see like like some of
they're like free bird that free bird
solo that could suck which is one of the
greatest solos in the history of all
music no there's some specific reasons
for this okay one of the more specific
reasons is you had you built it has a
beginning a middle a crescendo and end
there they're specific names to this
okay um when we moved to more channels
in recording when no Leonard Skynyrd
recorded all their early stuff as
8-track and then you had to double up a
really van Halen same thing you had to
compile your tracks or whatever um you
had to really walk in with your solo
written okay and play and you would work
it until it really had a thing
crescendos yeah okay once there were
many tracks guys would come in and just
wing it and go okay let's try one okay
great that's fine let's do it again
track two and they just make it up as
they go okay and then when it's time to
mix they'll put a little of track 2 and
a little up track 6 and start moving
those channels in a way that you would
never think to play the guitar for
example ed started doing that on a
couple of tracks all right original
solos running with the devil did it okay
these are thematic solos most Beatles
solos thematic yes into the solo and
ain't talking about I did it
you know these are thematic solos when
it started going but other look like
this
he'd record six different versions of
the solos
okay and then just start move the
channel like here turn this one on turn
this one off during this 100 this and
then he'd have to go learn the solo Wow
so you'll see his hand move from down
here to up here and down there it became
a gymnastic effort more elbow and
shoulder to get his hand from the far
end of the fretboard all the way up to
the pickup and back to duplicate that
wabi-sabi approach to making solos so it
was a very a weak or unique kind of way
of creating a solo
it was utilizing the digital digital
future multi-tracking
and improvising you follow as opposed to
I'm going to sit down and I'm gonna just
I'm gonna create something like a book
mmm there's the beginning here's the
scene here the characters here's the
conflict instead it's let's just mix
that all up together in interesting ways
in literary Burroughs came up with
bilborough's many many years ago came up
with the idea of writing a book then
clipping the pages into pieces putting
them all in a hat then pull the pieces
out one by one this is piece number one
this is piece number two face number
three and that's the way you actually
remember a story huh I don't get that
okay you remember a wedding yes
you don't remember in sequence all right
we had a batch party then I got measured
for the tasty then I went here you
remember bash party then putting the
ring then I was throwing up back behind
oh there was a car right it it doesn't
come in sequential order right okay so
it's another way of kind of a crafty way
of writing an essay um perhaps a bit
difficult to digest but movies are made
that way now
Tarantino starts in the middle right
let's do it yeah he always James Bond
always starts in the middle of a chase
mmm door flies open yeah well these guys
are
why is he off guard he's running across
the top of a drink as they started in as
opposed to here's the field horse walks
onto the field
I see the cabin I'm getting from this
one in regard says song making in
particularly the way Eddie and you did
it was there's no shortcuts you know and
the fact that first of all you know he's
one of the great masters right Eddie Van
Halen's one of the great masters if you
have mean a hundred of the greatest
guitar artists of all time
in the history of the human race he's in
that group they certainly made a
contribution commensurate with that yeah
yeah 100 percent so you have to have
that but then there's also no shortcuts
even when you're a great master no
there's no shortcut no you will have to
sharpen and sharpen and show you
describe sharpening a sword I've visited
a foundry where they make swords north
of Tokyo how was that well hot Oh Sun
because in the his work goes in the
museum's that is one of the things that
I really want to do yeah the found
school foundry for guys with hammers
super sweaty hot like thanks like
visiting the 1600s okay that's not who
sharpens and polishes the sword that's
my other friend who's 55 years old lives
in a suburb of Tokyo and that's all he
does for a living
so they take the first sword to him and
then he sharpens it yes okay and he's
the one who makes it get that chrome
finish so the man who forges it does not
sharpen it correct it's different
specialty is that always been the case
yes an insured pot sword polisher does
the sharpening and that's a specialty
requires certain stones from different
parts of Japan you don't use wheels you
use the old stones from the mountains
etc use water from a wooden bucket hmm
you rub it with your hands it's 55 years
old this is all he does for a living
museums from around the world is there
video this oh yeah what's the gentleman
it's you will find it I'm stalling for a
sec um he lives in a very little
apartment and he's got two gun safes
like you would use you know like Liberty
gun safes yeah
and museums from all over the world send
him swords oh here he goes
okay that's become rusty humidity 30
what is that okay this is that pants
that's paste and he's gonna be using
that's what they used to laminate by
putting paste on that sword parts of it
will cool differently anyways so that
sharpen had a sword takes forever that's
what makes your patterns oh so they do
it so you want that edge a little
different of hardness then you want the
rest of the sort you clad it and what is
that pasting on it what was that stuff
it's made of ash and it's made of or or
Wow and so when it heats up is that when
it becomes a part of the sword mm-hmm
why he's gonna laminate that okay
this is wild oh they got a scientist
look at this motherfucker with his lab
coat he's examining you're gonna ruin it
get him out of there at that scientist
major kind of Steel tamahagane II mmm
okay and when you do the little padding
like that that's ash so he's putting
little pieces of ash on it on perhaps a
stone on the stash house gonna sharpen
their Oh on a sword which is why they
cost so much Wow there are many
different kinds of stones that they'll
use on different parts of the sword can
you dig the point that the top gets a
different kind of stone in the middle of
the sword
cetera it's amazing like Japanese
culture and especially when when you
look into the ancient samurai culture
like a book of five rings is one of my
greatest all-time books I've read it
dozens of times my life but just to put
yourself in the mindset of someone with
such a Singh
vision too great to become a great
samurai he needed to become a great
artist a great poet he needed to be good
at carpentry he needed to be good at
calligraphy he needed to have all these
different skills no just like yourself
out
yeah kids got to take chess lessons or
you know or go-go lessons okay they got
to learn to paint and draw yeah got to
learn some martial arts you know
multiple languages this is a liberal
arts education as seen through the eyes
of somebody in the 1500s it's just I'm
so fascinated with the Japanese large
arenas so many things came from that one
small island I mean - in terms of like
martial arts contributions I mean it is
probably the there's a bunch of
contributors Brazilian jiu-jitsu and
Chinese kung-fu and Western boxing but
goddamn you look at the contributions of
Japan
I mean overwhelming we're just
overwhelming between judo and jiu-jitsu
and so many different martial arts
karate there's so many different styles
that were perfected in this one small
place okay it's an island I agree with
you
and that lends itself towards drilling
down burrowing in really digging in yeah
you follow if somebody is going to make
a sword it takes six different people to
make one sort the person who makes the
handle is not the person who wraps the
handle hmm
the person who makes the sword is not
the one who sharpens it the collar the
furniture on the sword the peg that
holds it in that gold scholar
that's a different person and the person
who makes the scabbard for the sword is
a different person you want me to keep
going no oh yes I mean what's an age of
specialization yeah started for them
many many decades ago the idea of I'm
one man and I'll build everything in the
cab alone in the wilderness this great
movie comes from the nineteen sixties
the fellow who builds the cabin and uses
handmade tools to do it up in the woods
right
I'll dig the well I'll plant the
potatoes I'll build the house I'll
create the hearth I'll fish the fish
I'll hunt the ELCA said hmm in the
Japanese perhaps you know as well as
other neighborhoods said hmm I'm just
gonna specialize in elk yeah
and somebody else said um I just like to
cook if that's okay yeah somebody else
said I'm not even gonna cook it I'm
gonna eat it raw have you have you ever
fucked around with archery Oh a million
years ago you know wood Scouts whatever
but that seems like something that we
right up your alley that's a it's a an
act of doing it without doing it yes it
is a mind cleansing thing too I think
you'd be perfect for you this is what I
saw you have a virtual reality range out
there yeah wait a minute
yeah all right officer I confess it's
all coming back I saw you on TV
filling the frigerator are getting ready
to fill the frigerator with a bow and
arrow or something about this
no I bow hunt yeah but do you actually
eat yeah 100% yes most of what I eat is
elk meat or deer meat yeah that's the if
you look at my diet on paper it's like
60% elk when did you begin this 2012 was
the first hunting trip I went on my good
friend Steve Rinella took me on a trip
on his television show meat eater and
then I became obsessed well I was trying
to figure out what I was doing because
I'd seen a bunch of factory farming
videos and I was like okay I'm either
gonna become a vegetarian or I'm gonna
become a hunter like this is I follow
that be a part of this I follow that and
so I became a hunter and first of all
the nutrition that you get from wild
games you see a difference all the
difference yeah yeah everybody does like
bull he just feel better it just feels
amazing really yeah it's so nutrient
Danson's red and rich and so what you're
eating an athlete you're eating a wild
athlete that's running away from wolves
and mountain lions I mean it's just a
different thing than a cow that's like
locked up in a cage or a pig that's
locked up in a stall make stellar sense
and they live a free life it's a wild
animal they there's no one telling them
what to do or where to go and you got to
be able to sneak it up in on them on the
right wind with the right conditions and
make sure you get a shot off on them
yeah that's it yeah I love it how often
you go out a couple times a year usually
and that provides all the way uh-huh
yeah if three commercial freezers in the
back I'll show you after we're done I
have three elk there were two elk rather
that are parsed up and two elk and to
access deer in those freezers yeah each
elk is several hundred pounds of meat
you know and then I give a lot of it to
my friends a good portion of my friends
they always get little packages of elk
for me elk sausage and elk roasts and
all these different things I'm always
giving people recipes showing them how
to eat it so I don't cook it citrus ting
that's the most modern why is the him is
the classic I eat what I call rabbit
food it's the croco diet like a
crocodile bird's foliage says the other
word you have for breakfast a chicken
and the slaw was it sitting in we would
you have fish but you catch it in
seaweed but that seems to serve me yeah
the Brady diet everybody's talking about
the Tom Brady diet what does he do well
we call it he eaten eating plain he's
not eating any process for he's not
eating any white bread he's not-- meal
in clean proteins you know no fried
stuff he's in his forties so crazy
yeah he's is he a miracle it's something
he's special and when you look at his
body he looks like a guy at the beach
like a regular guy he doesn't look like
a super athlete one of the greatest
football players of all time
are we seeing something because between
him and Alex Honnold
and there are a couple of other stellar
like whoa
are we starting to see a trend because
of better nutrition and better training
and cross trainings and I think there's
so many factors when you deal with
football there's so many people are
bigger these are stronger yeah
well I think with football but with Tom
Brady I think it's training intelligence
dedication obsession and then also
nutrition all those - all those factors
but you have to like really be him and
there's no way to be as good as he is
without being incredibly immersed in
whatever you're trying to excel at
there's no way and with Alex Honnold I
mean the guy lives out of his van
because he wants to live out of his van
because all he wants to do is just drive
around different mountains and climb
them I mean that's his thing for me it
was the surfers yeah nineteen sixties
exact things lifestyle they needed to be
a vertical water kind of just the doors
of the useless they call themselves some
vertical surfer that's it yeah vertical
so for me it was you know we're gonna go
camp at San Onofre yeah you know there's
something you talked to surfers there's
something that there's a weird corny way
to put it but I haven't talked to all of
them obviously but a lot of high-level
surfers like Kelly Slater or like my
good friend Shane Dorian they are their
spiritual in some strange way they're at
peace in some strange way and I think
part of it is because they're constantly
on that ocean and I think the ocean is
like a battery I think you get energy
out of it I think it's alive it feels
alive I think it stimulates you in a
very unique way and with those guys
they're riding these immense waves these
these creations of nature and gravity
and force and mass and water and they're
riding them and they're riding a living
thing there's organisms in it it's just
filled with salt I mean it charges the
body it's got a different frequency than
the rest of the world and these guys
they seem different they have a there's
a different vibe about them a more
content vibe I've always said it's like
- something about beach towns like why
is everybody by the beach so fucking
chill like what is that alright
something crazy this music isn't chill
Jack Johnson is but you know what I'm
saying
classic surf music is Donna no no no no
no no no no yeah I guess it sounds like
the waves mimic the way well the the way
I perhaps dick dale and the del-tones
were imitating the way waves made you
feel no no no and now they're playing
what it feels like to sit around the
campfire on the beach right yeah that
kind of shit it's kind of a beach tone
yeah a little bit is it runner's high I
don't know there's we used to walk into
the running stores and you know
everybody behind the counter has
attended a yeah and it stays with you
that's right hey that stays with you I
ride my bicycle everywhere I'm on two
wheels I've successfully replaced the
automobile in Pasadena really I got to
go to the 7-eleven I'm on the bicycle I
gots to live in Pasadena oh yeah I want
to go to the you know wherever you get
on the bicycle right in the rain doesn't
matter real yeah just you don't try the
car in Pasadena as infrequently as
possible Wow this this is how I cross
train as opposed to I'm gonna hire a
coaches just stay on that bike well if
you go to dinner somewhere don't laugh
okay I'll take it to an extreme when I'm
in New York City my bike and everything
set up over there I'm a bicycle and so
forth got a little apartment there um I
saw a scene in dr. know careful what you
let your kids see it could be for life
Shawn connolley comes out of the ocean
and one of those black neoprene wet
suits right right
and he peels it off and he's got a blue
tuxedo on underneath without a drop of
water I have to finish this yeah no I
got my I got my jump suits and I got my
flight suits and everything lay is more
than once I've gone to a club or a
dinner I give the door guy or the
parking guy of the valets it's on that's
my bike chained up over there and the
corners $20 keep an eye on don't Lenny
Pro snap that walk and I just stuff my
backpack up under the bike like this and
I do this in the rain I do it in the
snow
they do it every when somebody says the
rain I go yeah like every kid know why
there are no snow days in Hawaii right
it's raining just assume it there are no
snow days in the Dakotas it's snowing
yeah go to school yeah and I've done
this all over the world I take my
bicycles with me wherever I go
so when you're in Japan you took a bike
oh I know all of Tokyo bike like I know
the roof of my mouth I'll take you
anywhere on those streets I know every
alleyway I know all the ways downtown I
would routinely make a two-hour trip to
my art lessons from where I lived all
the way downtown into Ebisu and all the
way back like that when you drive around
today as opposed to in the old days
before cellphones do you notice a
difference with people paying attention
texture moves yeah I know that getting
off the line could take a week you know
the light changes in counting on how
long it takes is everybody's got to sign
off their phone yeah turn off the
computer do as or whatever um by and
large what I have noticed is that when
people are watching you they're no
longer Kev their hands in their pockets
and pretend to be whistling hmm
now you pretend you stare into your cell
phone that's true why'd you do it
that's 1960s nowadays it's like and more
often than not I'm the only guy who's
actually present in a place I walk into
a car you don't carry a cell phone no I
walk into a coffee shop or a restaurant
or even a club which is critically a
social experience and everybody is
staring into their cell phones at
different banquettes and different
whatever I'm more often than not I'm the
only one who's actually present looking
seeing have you airing just meddled with
those things have you ever oh sure
fucked with them and you decided it's
not for you I'm gonna let you know we'll
see please do very digitally literate
okay I can fly six million dollar
helicopter backwards
can you really yes but it forces people
to make eye contact you want to talk to
me is it just like this yeah okay
and you can't text me cuz that's
avoidance you can't uh there's a whole
lot of off ramps I take out of the
program what about email I don't you
tell me email nope
well I'm surrounded by individuals and I
know exactly what to ask for and what to
about so what do they want to get ahold
to you they have to go find you
mmm-hmm at no point in my life like is
it with yourself I'm assuming am i more
than five feet away from somebody with a
cell phone huh I was laughing it's like
James Bond or some secret agents shit
we're even Miguel the gardener has a
smart phone he's gonna pull a gun and
defend me did who ever carry them at one
point and decide to stop carrying them
yes and it became a constant as show
people we are targets targets for love
targets for greed targets for proximity
etc aims it became a constant
interruption
mmm became a constancy in an effort to
find my way to where Shane Dorian is I
don't want to be out on that wave man I
want calm I want to live in New York
City I want to live in the middle of the
noise and the clamor and I want to be
able to keep my heart rate down I want
to be able to keep my waist down you dig
yeah and I found myself constantly
having to answer that phone and having
to deal with hey man how are you just
what cut to the crash right and getting
texted is avoidance yeah nine and a half
times out of ten it's just somebody
didn't really want to talk on the phone
you hear this well I texted you I don't
know you're the only plan M landing
today yeah but at any given time the guy
driving the car
the assistant even the gardener has a
smartphone and everybody knows you can
find me yeah you keep it that way oh
yeah so what what year was it where you
decided to do this how long about four
years ago four years ago you've stopped
until then you're carrying the phone
doing the whole deal anyway I don't want
this anymore it was constant phone
ringing constant having to check in
constant of I called you how come you
didn't call me back right right alright
became a leash yeah it also indicates
you know as you start to call over and
over and over again it's it's like a
tracer you follow you have stalkers sure
I got a good one no not right now
I got stalkers yeah I got a stalker who
makes prank calls okay I can tell you
what time get to work I can tell you
what time he goes home I can tell you if
he went to church and then brunch and
what time you got home from that I can
tell you if you had something to drink
the night before and went home and slept
it off the next day mmm it's the nature
of communications right number of tracer
bullets work both ways boy yeah I'm
gonna indicate everywhere you are and
everything you do and your entire thing
of your life is very Orwellian
especially with social media right yeah
probably the last thing I want you to
know about me is how boring I am well
there's also that there's a thing of
giving in to this non-human device and
and integrating it with your life you in
where people just they never leave it
alone they're constantly on it they're
checking it with then you're not even
getting anything out of it you're just
checking it for nothing you're just
checking your email checking your photos
checking your Instagram is nothing
coming nothing positive coming out of it
it's just like this weird distraction
from life you used to use the
refrigerator for that yes right it's
almost the same you're so right it's
like a digital version of opening the
refrigerator when you know nothing's in
there and crazy that's
true it's so true it's like a boredom
exercise yeah it's a habit you just
gotta reach for it or reach for it do
you have one just in case you have to
use it I'm giving away all my secrets
I am constantly in the grid okay okay um
one of my closest colleagues that I work
with two and three nights a week Colin
Smith has written 17 books on how to run
Adobe Photoshop okay we've been working
on an art project together for quite
some time will they be you that at
another time yeah um I love the Internet
I love what the digifuse brought to us
my only real regret in life is that I
didn't have this growing up go look it
up I should have that tattooed yeah and
signed by my parents yeah it's a great
time for finding things out you know the
information if you want to learn the
Encyclopedia Britannica was what we had
goes lock it up and Canterbury records
in case you wanted some music which was
an hour's bike ride inch way okay
and I can keep going and now you can get
music instantly God was just it's for
somebody like me when I was flavor of
the week the first time you know I did
all the rock star stuff and one of the
first things that I wanted to do cuz I'd
read that Elton John did this is you
would get him to close the store store
and shop around by yourself yeah and no
one oh you gotta have a security guy of
course brings a pillow case ah you put
the records on a pillow and you with
with impunity you pick your record you
don't even read the liner's if you have
a good cover you're in the case is sit
election something yeah
that I used to buy records based on how
cool the cover looked a routine like a
chance routine especially double album
covers and and and and I would routinely
I would shop by weight okay I would do
that at bookstores to as much as we
could carry coming out of the book
stores because for example I like many
different kinds of music one of my
favorites is danceable electronica okay
R&B disco anything that has I call it
floor if it has anything to do with
dancing it's for and there were no floor
stations here in the in California in
the 70s you wanted to hear anything
that's you know you had KJ LH maybe you
know some small am kind of a station but
you went to New York you had let me put
the headphones on I can do the voice
this is Puckle w Katie you shadow
traffic we're missing DJ's right sorry
we're missing DJ's that's something
that's missing from our culture the
kannada bhavana miles I'm with the best
bet for the boss beat at the top of the
pop smash gold I'm Diamond Dave no time
to waste making the taste baby shut up
time to play the record baby yeah
Wolfman Jack those guys are gone that
that's like a missing segment of our
culture mmm I was in Pasadena listening
for the first FM radio underground
station which was kppc it was Metromedia
I believe was channel 5 tell me if this
gets too boring
um here's the history of it is during
the Cold War right around 1965 66 it
became a legal imperative that all radio
stations regular ones had to operate an
FM band station FM had been around since
the 1930s my uncle Manny remembered it
okay but it never got used it was AM
radio KFWB channel 90
right it was like the mighty 1090 you
know I'll catch that kind of screaming
DJ kind of thing why because you know in
case there's an emergency
you were not allowed to take your normal
programming though from KFWB and put it
on your sister station on FM had to be
different programming mmm okay you can't
just dominate FM because you got the
advertisers your channel 5 got a lot of
advertisers you got are all shy car
painter you ever in so you've got chase
and Sanborn coffee you're gonna squeeze
me right you're not allowed to have the
same programming in channel 5 they
operate kppc which is 106.7 today it's
k-rock or whatever unit like 106 right
in there and they brought in literally
all these FM stations you know the the
bosses you know all said well my nephew
he loves that rock stuff you know he's
got a lot of Records maybe he'll be a DJ
kind of thing or who would be a DJ for
this kind of stuff I don't know who's a
non screamer the jazz guys okay they
brought in Big Daddy Tom Donahue and his
wife Rachel and they came in and they
start broadcasting on kppc and Tom was a
jazz DJ Benny would just kind of like
this and he'd okay
we got a new Quicksilver here can't wait
till it comes out in stereo take a
listen now to first side seeing a few
yeah and we would practice that there's
an art to that oh yeah there's an art to
preparing you for a new song yeah okay
got a brand-new wooden here yeah he used
the velvet hand like DJ's you know like
such as yeah jazz guys back then a lot
of them were doing things that
tells you to slow down you know at me
and we started doing those things to egg
you lord
lola gage your little strength of
patience Joe knows what I do right after
and then it would set you up for the
music you'd actually enjoy the music a
little bit more because of that guy oh
yeah yeah I would get into the enhance
day okay here's a little something you
were kind of coke inspiring that if
streaming services were smart they would
bring that shit back they'd find someone
you know because like streaming services
are the new radio right I mean that's
where a lot of people get their music
agreed are you talking about like the
Endora yeah but that's sort of what
Apple's pitch was they have a whole
radio section on Apple music and they
have why did you yeah that shows and
well the DJ is running yeah but like as
a sports notes what is it in the natural
okay
great movie bro yeah Duvall Duval's a
writer
yeah writer and they get into a little
bit of an argument
mm-hmm somebody says you don't play
baseball he's is yeah but and a good day
I could make it look a little bit more
interesting and a little more exciting
yeah I hope you see what you to help you
understand what um paraphrase sure
that's what I do with commentary yeah
exactly that's an art form that he
implicates everything drama pay those
hilarity all in one paragraph
I've watched you go from Channel
seamlessly I grew up with the great
Scully
Cosell so tell me so tell me Holly so
cash is please its ollie cash okay and
we would imitate that yeah you know
trying to get that kind of an eloquent
sound yeah you know but you have DJs
they're not really DJs they are
represented
of a lifestyle for example I'm going
into DJ boys because I got the
headphones this is why I don't wear the
headphones because you come to aware yet
Sun Goes Down I've been to sleep since
the late eighties but um what was I
talking about it I started riffing their
DJs now DJ's now aren't really DJ's when
you listen for example is Sirius XM you
have for example of the country artists
sure okay
and it's no shoes radio and you know
it's um he's not a humorist okay he's
not even an interlocutor where he and
behold and so it came to pass like in
Greek tragedy and so it came to pass
that the Sun came and the war was
wondering that he's not that it's Kenny
Chesney going and I said with respect
you know hi this is Kenny and I was just
walking down here and paying him on City
and my phone win did no I walked inside
and I asked Goodfellas right here the
Joe Rogan barbeque to fire it up if I
could just sort of charge it up and they
said hell yeah so I just want to tell
you I'll come down and rub mark you see
you can always find us right here on
know she's radio so there's something
and you follow it's not announcers he's
kind of being right um
Tom Petty he was a co-conspirator or
you know like a a man I'm down here in
the basement man I'm listening to some
wreck come on down will fire up the bomb
and check this ad this is fucking tasty
this is a it's an important I had
friends like that yeah they could choose
the music to that was the other thing
about DJ's they would choose the music I
don't know what tastemaker all the FM
radio do yeah yeah that yes you bet in
yeah that makes a big difference I did
not think about was listened to WB CN in
Boston it was a like 1980s and they
wanted to play Michael Jackson and the
guy said listen I know this isn't rock
as W vcn was the rock of Oz - sure look
I know this isn't rock but damn this is
good music and they played Billie Jean I
remember thinking why what a bold choice
soda what's a bold choice in a certain
sense okay and the certain sense is that
after a while FM radio became very
codified mmm you know just like the
horse races somewhere in the low mid 70s
late 70s it became a playlist in the in
DJ's no longer picked their own records
program directors picked the records
okay it became very specific target demo
we want to home in and whatever now keep
in mind when Howard Stern left regular
radio terrestrial radio for the
stratosphere I got his job in New York
City
oh that's right I was broadcasting in
seven different cities
I forgot you did that okay Dallas New
York Philly I think I was on and cetera
cetera and it turns out I think what
they wanted was a version of Howard
Stern okay great I'll be a third class
Howard Stern or a first class David Lee
my approach to it is very different then
his would be were two very different
people right he's talked he's a
personality it's all about interaction I
see myself as show people I'm music
first mm-hm
so the first thing I'm gonna pick when
we throw a barbeque is not the food or
the guest list but what's the music
right well white people listen to Bob
Marley when we're on vacation and when
we celebrate things we listen to cool in
the game right right and I would play
those and the ratings were going up and
they were pissing off management really
well they said we feel that Leonard
Skinner did Nickelback are more
appropriate for your audience so the
ratings were going up Yammer upset yes
and because you couldn't rein me in okay
now keep in mind I hired cooling the
gang to open for Van Halen tour before
last
you have never seen so many people
dancing in one place is the sound of
every wedding Bar Mitzvah from bachelor
party cuz this is ladies night and the
feel water die and you gotta sing look
at each other as you're driving like
what so what did they say to you before
you took the job like what was the the
what was the conversation when you
agreed to do it what did you think was
gonna happen as opposed to what did
happen well what'd you say and what is
real yeah that's the problem I we
discussed doing commercials for example
and I don't feel comfortable doing
commercials unless it's something I
actually use like sunglasses or
cigarettes beyond that you know
Vermont Care Bear kind of a thing I
don't know right so it was uncomfortable
from the beginning I got fired for
playing too much ethnic music and for
late-night humor too early in the
morning but that was Howard Stern's
whole deal was late-night here no it's
not it's not different kind of humor
what was your deal but as opposed to his
well whenever we brought on porn stars I
actually knew him there were no died
we'd already gone through that getting
no you face seasons early her kind of
they expect you to do all talk or did
they want you to play music as well as
my sense of humor as difference unique
as is his and as is yours okay can we
have a League of imitations in our end
of the business and broadcasting okay
but there's no snare drum and hi-hat nor
is there for Howard you follow mm-hmm
he's very nice again I start with the
music I start with the ambience and of
humor arises or personalities arise or
we have guests great if we don't that's
fine too
and I think they expected other what I
showed up with
was it also ranged it wasn't always
funny hmm okay do you think that it was
just maybe something you would Excel
that if they'd had different
expectations like instead of following
Howard Stern - just - David Lee rush oh
you bet yeah do you think you'd still be
doing it yes really
yeah Wow yeah their expectations was the
funny the funny interview the guests
have pop-culture funny guests right in
the subject matter just as we've touched
on subjects here that are whole areas
and subjects that are pretty dense yeah
cuz I call it yeah it's gonna detonate
halfway down the turnpike oh that's what
he fucking meant mmm yes that stuff
that's gonna go away real quick gives
you thought about doing that now like
what if Apple came to you or one of
these streaming services came to you and
wanted to do something like that
they always arrive with expectations and
the expectations just as we discussed
three phases of Anna Nicole Smith and
Elvis yeah which Dave are you referring
to right
I just think just with someone like you
I mean I'm not a program director but if
I was I would say just let him be him
just figure it out
just let it give it time to grow that's
what people don't do they metal they
metal they are like you're gonna do I
look from what I know of you you're
gonna do your best at everything
everything you do you're gonna do your
best if I was gonna hire you that's what
I would say everybody get the fuck away
from him he's gonna do his best now let
him hire who he wants to hire and do
what he wants to do and put what he
wants to put on and let him figure it
out but you hired David Lee Roth didn't
hire Mike Fitzgerald and and and can
beYOU can Twitter the fuck the other
people are that work in the office it
also wants to jizz in the soup no you
hired David Lee Roth let David Lee Roth
be David Lee Roth and let it find his
legs that's difficult
entity because comes with a lot of
history yeah you know and then the
people will start folks will start
conducting well you got to play this you
gotta play and it has a very specific
expect you away however in this age
there's a lot a lot of freedoms there's
a lot of you know what you're discussing
is something that I think about
occasionally so it seems like something
you'd be open to yeah I'll get you a job
just from this particular interview I
would be very open to it um I you know
they've approached me before to talk
about it um my interest in music is
diverse but it's energized which duh is
he know Henry Rollins of course you know
he does his own radio show and he picks
his own playlist it's like one of the
last few things that a person like him
is able to do like that and he does it
once he once a week right does it he's
going one night a week he does and he
loves it I mean something else that
people have approached me for is writing
a column you some of the good magazines
have approached me big ones about
becoming a writer that interesting to
you you bet yeah it seems like it would
be you bet it's it's a different sound
when I write you know it's uh it's in a
bit of a different voice it's my sense
of humor comes out a little bit more in
terms of darkness mmm
remember reading an article in New York
magazines far bags 1968 I don't remember
the element the fellow was the theater
critic for New York Magazine and the
title was in defense of booing why do we
always have to tolerate clapping
especially for shitty performances right
there's the clapper who claps because
they're part of the gang and there's the
clapper who yells Bravo so that they
exist I am heard
and he talks about how you know he gets
thrown out of an opera for booing and
everybody knew a theater critic for 36
years at New York magazine Wow in Italy
they permit booing and I support that
America stands a lot well that kind of
sneaks in not just as if as a form of
negative targeting okay but as a form of
elevating you dig yeah you don't go to
the golf swing guy put on all the
electrodes they do the slow motion
things they can go you're great Joe no
he wants to go see your wrists right
right no what you're doing with the
elbow you're making me stay exactly yeah
he's there to identify the flaw right if
there's no flaws there's no booing you
know a lot of folks agree to go Jesus
man you concentrate on the negative
I love booing as much as going yay in
fact I can think of certain heavy metal
records that we could discuss on the
airplane from LA to New York that's five
hour flight and I could discuss the
record endlessly as long as we're going
boo hmm if we're discussing what's wrong
with it you can go for five hours what's
great about it how long you gonna
sustain that 20 minutes mmm hot it's
really smart and smart the criticism you
know identifying the Flies in that
negative right over here yeah you think
it's a good example as Edie woods
monster movies you see the string you
see the smoke you see the Flying Saucer
it looks fake that's a version you feel
smugly superior you look at that thing
that's you know that's a form of
bullying yeah you know now today if a
people weren't doing that you wouldn't
have black panther you wouldn't have
spider-man you wouldn't have Avengers in
all the amazing special effects and CGI
and everything because of high
expectations just somebody going I see
the string right right
yeah Joe yeah all right let me invent
computers and I'll get back to you David
Lee Roth I just did three hours you
believe that time flies when you don't
know what you doing Joe you know what
you're doing you sly son of a bitch
doing nothing means a lot we really nail
three hours really did tell people one
more time about your product line and
wait wait web site it is the original
and please say it that way
ink the original ink the original not
the @r enough ink the original she's
pretty go get a pretty good we make it
for everybody who's got ink anybody
who's got tattoos and stuff at virtually
everything that you're going to use in
the boudoir the bathroom anything you're
putting the locker but especially that
brightener man that stuff's the shit dad
that will read boom
no more rubbing it with your finger etc
and we got a whole product line coming
it laughs to win is the moment in order
today I'm gonna order a bunch of shit
you don't have to order we'll have it
delivered I'm gonna order just cuz I
love you god bless David Lee Roth you're
a bad motherfucker for you Joe that's a
very special belt to wear thank you sir
David Lee Roth ladies and gentlemen good
night
[Music]
[Applause]